Other books and DVDs by David Icke

Books

Phantom Self

The Perception Deception

Remember Who You Are

Human Race Get Off Your Knees - The Lion Sleeps No More The

David Icke Guide

to the Global Conspiracy (and how to end it) Infinite Love is the Only

Truth,

Everything Else is Illusion Tales from the Time Loop

Alice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster Children Of

The Matrix

The Biggest Secret

I Am Me • I Am Free

… And The Truth Shall Set You Free – 21st century edition Lifting The

Veil

The Robots’ Rebellion

Heal the World

Truth Vibrations

It Doesn’t Have To Be Like This

DV Ds

Worldwide Wake-Up Tour Live

David Icke Live at Wembley Arena The Lion Sleeps No More

Beyond the Cutting Edge – Exposing the Dreamworld We Believe to

be Real

Freedom or Fascism: the Time to Choose Secrets of the Matrix

From Prison to Paradise

Turning Of The Tide





The Freedom Road

Revelations Of A Mother Goddess Speaking Out

The Reptilian Agenda

Details of availability at the back of this book

and through the website www.davidicke.com

Contents

On The Road To ‘Now’

CHAPTER 1: The Biggest Need-To-Know

CHAPTER 2: The Inversion

CHAPTER 3: Log In/Log Out

CHAPTER 4: One Big Program

CHAPTER 5: Archon Visitations

CHAPTER 6: Software Elite

CHAPTER 7: Mind Control and Shapeshifting ‘Royals’

CHAPTER 8: Casting the Spell

CHAPTER 9: Holding the Spell

CHAPTER 10: Advancing the Spell

CHAPTER 11: Terrified of Truth

CHAPTER 12: Before Your Very Eyes

CHAPTER 13: War, War, War – We Love It





CHAPTER 14: Saying the Unsayable

CHAPTER 15: Is It Hot or Is It Me?

CHAPTER 16: The Assimilation

CHAPTER 17: Synthetic Human

CHAPTER 18: Perceptions of Freedom

POSTSCRIPT

BIBLIOGRAPHY

INDEX

Pity the nation ...

Pity the nation whose people are sheep, and whose

shepherds mislead them. Pity the nation whose leaders are

liars, whose sages are silenced, and whose bigots haunt the

airwaves. Pity the nation that raises not its voice, except to

praise conquerors and acclaim the bully as hero and aims to

rule the world with force and by torture. Pity the nation that

knows no other language but its own and no other culture

but its own. Pity the nation whose breath is money and

sleeps the sleep of the too well fed. Pity the nation – oh, pity

the people who allow their rights to erode and their

freedoms to be washed away. My country, tears of thee,

sweet land of liberty.

Lawrence F erlinghetti

No society wants you to become wise: it is against the

investment of all societies. If people are wise they cannot be

exploited. If they are intelligent they cannot be subjugated,

they cannot be forced into a mechanical life, to live like

robots. They will assert their individuality. They will have the

fragrance of rebellion around them. They will like to live in

freedom. Freedom comes with wisdom, intrinsically. They

are inseparable, and no society wants people to be free.

The communist society, the fascist society, the capitalist

society, the Hindu, the Mohammedan, the Christian – no

society – would like people to use their own intelligence

because the moment they start using their intelligence they

become dangerous – dangerous to the Establishment,

dangerous to the people who are in power, dangerous to the

‘haves’; dangerous to all kinds of oppression, exploitation,

suppression; dangerous to the churches, dangerous to the

states, dangerous to the nations. In fact, a wise man is afire,

alive, aflame. But he cannot sell his life, he cannot serve





them. He would like rather to die than to be enslaved.

Osho

Title Definition

I want to make it clear before we start what the title

represents. Everything You Need To Know, But Have Never

Been Told does not refer to all that people need to know in

terms of information and knowledge.

How could you put that between two covers? Religious

books claim to do this but they are works of self-delusion

and perceptual imprisonment.

Everything You Need To Know in this case refers to the

information necessary to open entirely new ways of thinking

and perceiving reality, both in the seen and unseen, from

which everything else will come.

This book is a start not a finish.

It is written in layers with information placed upon

information that together reveals the picture by connecting

the parts. The parts are fascinating, but the picture is

devastating.

Prepare for a perception reboot ...





‘Your assumptions are your windows on the world. Scrub

them off every once in a while, or the light won’t come in’ –

I saac A simov

I am closing in on 30 years since I was first dubbed the

maddest man in Britain and most other places come to that.

Newspaper headlines delighted in my alleged madness and I

was a comedian’s dream. Mention of my name was enough

to get a laugh with no joke necessary. I was the joke.

But, as it turns out, they were the joke all along.

They didn’t know (and neither did I) that what they

perceived as madness was a mind emerging from the

collective madness which is called normality ... the madness

that masquerades as sanity ... the coma-sleep that believes

it is wide awake. There are none so enslaved as those who

wrongly believe they are free, and none so crazy as those

who wrongly believe they are sane. Today as truly intelligent

people look in my direction from literally all over the world it

can safely be said that rumours of my madness were greatly

exaggerated. For what is the perception of madness, but the

perceiver’s perception of sanity? What is that perception,

but what collective society has decreed sanity to be? And

what is that collective society, but they who control,

influence and police opinion to manipulate the norms that

they then decree? Sanity and insanity are defined by

perception and not necessarily by reality. Human history is

awash with those dubbed mad and dangerous who were to

be feted as ‘ahead of their time’ often long after they had

passed. Perceptions of sanity and insanity are not even

static and they change as knowledge moves on. Tell a

caveman that it’s possible to fly to the Moon and he would

call you crazy. Tell someone today that it’s not possible and

they will say the same. It is an extraordinary and incredibly

debilitating human trait this cognitive dissonance between

what we call ‘past’ and ‘present’. People are so willing to

mock and condemn those long gone who ridiculed or even

murdered the visionaries who could see then what is now

considered to be obvious. But the same people are so

unwilling to acknowledge how they themselves react the

same way today to those who see the world differently to

them and the norms that mould and solidify their sense of

reality. Minds that genuinely seek understanding come from

the immoveable foundation that they don’t know it all. They

are humble and wise enough to realise that humanity knows

an almost incomprehensibly small fraction of what there is

to know. Thus their minds are open at all times to all

possibility. I don’t mean only the possibilities that never

challenge and expose ingrained religious, cultural, scientific

and societal beliefs; I mean all possibility with none

excluded. To consider all possibility and not only belief-

system possibility is, to much of humanity, like garlic to a

vampire. Unyielding perceptions are recycled and confirmed

by sheer unquestioned repetition. While newspaper

headlines told the world of my madness I was, ironically,

becoming sane. Amid historic levels of ridicule and abuse

that I faced in the 1990s I was walking into the light of

freedom – real freedom – where I could think the

unthinkable and say the unsayable and not give damn what

people made of it. How many allow themselves that

priceless gift? And yet it is there for the taking whenever

they choose. If I can do it, so can everyone. Chinese

philosopher Lao Tzu said: ‘Care about people’s approval and

you will be their prisoner.’

I was born in Leicester, England, on April 29th 1952 and

grew up on a council estate in a very different world to the

one we see today. There was no Internet, computers, smart

phones or tablets and only one television channel until I was

three – not that we could afford a TV until years later or

even needed one. We had next to no money but I never felt

deprived. You made your own fun and followed your own

interests. They weren’t delivered through a TV screen or the

latest app. Life was simpler then and you had more time to

think, ponder and daydream (my default state). I can now

see patterns in my life, with the perspective of hindsight,

that were guiding me through the maze since childhood, but

at the time they appeared to be only random events,

successes and failures. I see them very differently today.

Football (soccer) was my passion as a kid (and steam trains)

and I set out to be a professional footballer. A series of

coincidences and ‘bits of luck’ gave me that chance and all

was going well until rheumatoid arthritis ended my career at

age 21. Arthritis first appeared when I was 15, just six

months into my career as a goalkeeper with Coventry City,

and became progressively worse affecting more joints. I

played in pain for years before it became too much. My

second choice of career had always been journalism and

that’s where I headed next. I set my sights on being a

television presenter with the BBC sports department –

although given my circumstances I was told this would be

almost impossible (as many had said about professional



football). I had left school at 15 to join Coventry and had no

educational qualifications let alone a university degree. I

was advised that getting into journalism would therefore be

very difficult. But the pattern repeated itself with more

coincidences and ‘bits of luck’ that led me into newspapers,

radio, regional television and eventually to be a national

television presenter with BBC Sport. The pattern was never

more obviously at work than when I joined the British Green

Party as a member of a local group that I started on the Isle

of Wight where I live off the south coast of England. Within

weeks, through more coincidences and inexplicable

happenings, I had been elected a national ‘speaker’

representing the party’s views in the media. It was now that

the patterns in my life of setting a goal and then doors

synchronistically opening and closing to achieve that goal

could no longer be denied. What was going on? I had no

idea (Fig 1).

F igure 1 : My life seemed to be a series of random events until the

recurring pattern became hard to deny.

By the late 1980s I had tired of the television world which

I found vacuous and full of its own self-importance. This

phase was thankfully coming to an end with my life about to

change dramatically. I began to have strange experiences at

the turn of 1989 in the sense that when I was alone in a

room there always seemed to be someone or something

there. A presence, I guess you would call it. The feeling

became stronger and the presence ever more tangible

throughout the year until I had to address it. I was sitting on

a bed in a London hotel room in early 1990 while still

working for the BBC. The presence was so obvious that I

said: ‘If there is anybody here, will you please contact me

because you are driving me up the wall!’ A few days later I

was in an Isle of Wight newspaper shop with my then young

son, Gareth, when suddenly I found myself unable to move

my feet. It was like magnets were pulling them to the floor.

As I was trying to understand what was happening a ‘voice’,

actually a very strong thought-form, passed through my

mind which said: ‘Go and look at the books on the far side.’

My feet ‘unfroze’ and I walked in a bewildered daze towards

the little book stand where I had only seen romantic novels

before. They were still there but in among them was a book

that took my eye because it was so different. It was called

Mind to Mind and written by a professional psychic medium,

Betty Shine (Fig 2). As soon as I saw the word ‘psychic’ I

wondered if maybe she could explain the presence I was

feeling. I read the book in 24 hours, contacted her and made

an appointment. I told her nothing about what was

happening to me and said only that I wanted to see if her

‘hands-on healing’ (an exchange of energy) would help my

arthritis. This was of secondary importance to me, however.

Would she pick up anything around me that could account

for what had been happening for the last year? I saw Betty

four times and the last two visits changed my life forever. I

was lying on a medical-type bench on visit three, while she

was treating my left knee, when I felt something like a

spider’s web on my face. I remembered how she described

in her book having this same feeling when other dimensions

of reality were preparing to communicate. Psychic or inter-

reality

connections

are

made

at

one

level

electromagnetically

and

my

‘spider’s

web’

was

electromagnetic energy of the kind that makes the hair on

your neck and arms stand up among an excited crowd or in

a haunted house. I didn’t mention the ‘web’ that I was

feeling but a few seconds later Betty Shine pushed her head

back and said: ‘Wow! This is powerful. I’ll have to close my

eyes for this one.’ She said she was seeing a figure in her

mind that was asking to communicate with me. ‘They’ knew

that I wanted them to contact me, but the time wasn’t right,

Betty told me, although she knew nothing of what had

happened in the London hotel room. She began to repeat

the words that were given to her:

• He is a healer who is here to heal the Earth and he will

be world famous.

• He is still a child spiritually, but he will be given the

spiritual riches.

• Sometimes he will say things and wonder where they

came from. They will be our words.



F igure 2 : Betty Shine.

• Knowledge will be put into his mind, and at other times

he will be led to knowledge.

• He was chosen as a youngster for his courage. He has

been tested and has passed all the tests.

• He was led into football to learn discipline, but when

that was learned it was time to move on. He also had to

learn how to cope with disappointment, experience all the

emotions, and how to get up and get on with it. The

spiritual way is tough and no one makes it easy.

• He will always have what he needs [this could have

been ‘wants’], but no more.

• He will face enormous opposition, but we will always be

there to protect him.

A week later I returned for my last visit and more

information was given to me in the same way:

• One man cannot change the world, but one man can

communicate the message that will change the world.

• Don’t try to do it all alone. Go hand in hand with others,

so you can pick each other up as you fall.

• He will write five books in three years [I did].

• Politics is not for him. He is too spiritual. Politics is anti-

spiritual and will make him very unhappy [it did].

• He will leave politics. He doesn’t have to do anything. It

will happen gradually over a year [it did].

• There will be a different kind of flying machine, very

different from the aircraft of today.

• Time will have no meaning. Where you want to be, you

will be.

I met another medium soon after the last meeting with

Betty Shine who gave me similar information, which

included:

Arduous seeking is not necessary. The path is already

mapped out. You only have to follow the clues ... We are

guiding you along a set path. It was all arranged before

you incarnated.

The point about following the clues is exactly what has

happened. Yet another series of coincidences led me to Peru

in early 1991. My amazing visit over the best part of three

weeks

–

with

countless

more

coincidences

and

synchronicities – culminated on a hillside overlooking the

ancient ruins of Sillustani, 13,000 feet above sea level in the

Andes near the city of Puno on the shores of Lake Titicaca. I

had spent an hour walking around the ruins admiring the

stunning landscape and then headed back to Puno in a mini-

bus taxi with the driver and a Peruvian guide. A short

distance down the road I was daydreaming (as usual) and

gazing at a hill to my right when the words ‘come to me,

come to me, come to me’ began repeating in my mind. I

asked the driver to stop and strong intuition told me that I

needed to climb the hill. I said I would be back shortly, but I

was more than an hour because of what happened. I

stopped among some large stones that were no longer there

on my return in 2012. My feet began to feel as they did in

the newspaper shop, magnetically sucked to the spot,

although this time with far greater power. I felt a drill-like

sensation on the top of my head and then a flow of energy

from my head through my body to my feet and into the

ground. Another flow came the other way. My arms

stretched out at 45 degrees towards the sky when I had

made no conscious decision to do so. Then a ‘voice’ or very

clear thought passed through my mind which said: ‘It will be

over when you feel the rain.’ This sounded utterly crazy as I

stood under a cloudless Peruvian sky and a ferociously hot

sun. The energy passing through my body with my arms still

in the air became so strong that I was shaking, as if

subjected to an ongoing electrical shock (Fig 3). I would

move in and out of conscious awareness with my focus

disappearing ‘out there’ and then returning. During one of

the conscious moments I saw a light grey mist over the

mountains way in the distance and very quickly the mist

became darker. Blimey, I thought, it is raining over there.

The storm came out of the mountains towards me in a

ridiculously short time and I watched in some shock as a

deluge of stair-rod rain swept across the land in front of me.

By now my body was really shaking from the impact of the

energy passing through me until wham the rain hit me and I

was drenched in an instant. With that the energy stopped

and I was standing there with jelly legs and my shoulders

were agony after almost an hour stretched out above my

head. I felt nothing when it was all going on, but my god I

did now. I had no idea what had happened, but the

consequences were soon on public display.



F igure 3 : Recreating my Sillustani experience on a return visit in

2012.

I returned to Britain with information and concepts pouring

into my conscious mind as if a bubble or dam had burst and

the Universe and his mate were coming in. My brain

basically froze for three months in the way that a computer

freezes when asked to process too much data at the same

time. I went on prime-time television still in freezemode

trying to understand what was happening to me and that

interview triggered levels of mass ridicule that few can have

experienced. I saw very clearly – and constantly – that those

who ridicule others are always the most ignorant and stupid.

Big mouths and empty brains obviously come as a pair. I

couldn’t go anywhere without being laughed at and

ridiculed and every bridge to my old life was ablaze. I can’t

say that it wasn’t difficult in the extreme but you could have

offered to take everything away and plant me back where I

was before – throw a million in the bank for luck – and I

would still have turned you down. Everything before me said

that I had destroyed myself, but something deep within me

knew this was going somewhere even if I had no idea

exactly where. For three months after Peru I lived my life in

a bewildered daze like someone dropped into a strange

alien world without a map or compass. Then over a few days

everything began to unfreeze. I was ‘David’ again, but not

really. To those who knew me I appeared to be the same

man I had been before the ‘funny time’. This may have been

true outwardly, but I was not seeing the same world that I

had before Peru. My mind had been opened and I saw reality

in a very different way. Before Peru I had seen dots, now I

saw pictures and how everything connected. My experience

has been that life gives you your greatest gifts brilliantly

disguised as your worst nightmare and so it was with the

mass and incessant ridicule that set me free of the prison

that most people live in – the fear of what other people

think. This was so essential for what was to come with the

communication of information way beyond the norms of

human society which continues to this day. From this post-

Peru period especially, my life became an incredible

synchronistic adventure as information would come to me in

the form of people, books, documents and personal

experience. It was like some unseen force was handing me

pieces in a puzzle, and that quote from 1990 captures the

theme perfectly:

Arduous seeking is not necessary. The path is already

mapped out. You only have to follow the clues ... We are

guiding you along a set path. It was all arranged before

you incarnated.

Information communicated through Betty Shine proved

just as accurate: ‘Sometimes he will say things and wonder

where they came from ... They will be our words ...

Knowledge will be put into his mind, and at other times he

will be led to knowledge.’ This is precisely what has

happened since 1990 as I have delved ever deeper into the

rabbit hole of human control and manipulation. The

information has even come in an order that made it easiest

to comprehend, and there has been so much to comprehend

across a great swathe of subjects that appear on the surface

not to be connected but fundamentally are. For the first few

years the focus was largely on a network of global families

manipulating events and enforcing their will on human

society. From the mid-to-late 1990s revelations about a

nonhuman dimension to this network were given to me, and

since the early 2000s the theme has been the illusory

nature of physical reality and ever more detail about the

world we think we live ‘in’, but don’t. Each stage has taken

the same pattern. First the new theme would emerge

followed by information from all directions relating to that

theme as if someone had pressed a button. As each new

stage begins the previous ones still continue and this has

demanded the processing and fitting together of

phenomenal amounts of information across a whole

spectrum of subjects both ancient and modern. Day after

day, year after year I have walked out of my little office in

the early evening with my brain aching and begging for

mercy, but the older I have got and the more I have done it

the easier the processing has become.

I hope that I stand as living proof to people that no matter

what is thrown at you over whatever period you cannot be

stopped unless you stop yourself. YOU have the power over

your life and you simply have to take it back from those you

think have the power. The human power/no power dynamic

is just a confidence trick – a mind game – and we need to

see through the illusion that humanity believes to be so

real. If you refuse to give up, feel sorry for yourself and run

away, you will get somewhere. You have to. Amid all the

ridicule and abuse I have written a stream of books which

are read all over the world and I have talked to ever-bigger

audiences all over the world. What happened to that nutter

we said had gone mad? How come so many are now

listening to what he says? What, why, how come? I didn’t

quit and I never will – that’s how come. The mainstream





media locked away in their time-warp still portray me as the

man who existed for just three months nearly 30 years ago

and the same is the case with those who get their views and

opinions from that media. The truth is very different as

anyone new to my work is about to find out.

Why do we live on such a Planet of Tears when life could

be and should be so wonderful? There is an answer ... and

here it is ...

The world is full of people who have never, since childhood,

met an open doorway with an open mind – E. B. White

Once upon a no-time, in a ‘land’ called Forever, there was

only Awareness in awareness of itself – all-possibility and all-

potential waiting to manifest. There was no form, only the

potential imagination of form of every possible kind. This

was the infinite state of pure awareness from which all that

we think we ‘see’ has ultimately come.

That opening paragraph captures so many common

themes encoded in the narratives and symbolism of religion

and the myths, legends and accounts of native and ancient

peoples the world over. They further include the story of

how a negative or ‘evil’ force emerged to challenge the

omnipotence of the original creative force. From this

appeared the universal theme of ‘God’ v ‘The Devil’ or

‘Satan’ and endless other names awarded to this source of

chaos, upheaval and manipulation. Most people can’t see

the commonalities amid the apparent confusion of different

religions, names, cultures and emphasis; but if you can see

past the differing detail the same basic story is in plain

sight. This is only possible, however, if you can expand

perception beyond the ‘dots’ and see themes and

connections that then come clearly into view. Followers and

advocates of religions and storytellers among native

peoples continue to use the language of the ancient

originators, and this can obscure the fact that what is being

described can today be expressed in the language of

science and computation. They will talk of ‘the Father’ and

‘the Son’, for example, when these were only the terms

used to describe massive (though ultimately simple)

concepts in a way that those of the time could grasp. What

is the point of talking about quantum physics and quantum

computers to people still knocking rocks together?

Storytellers and carriers of the knowledge obviously used

contemporary terms and symbols to get their point across

and this was true of all religions and forms of worship. That

was fine and essential then but the narrative needs to move

on. Knowledge of the hidden realms of quantum mechanics

and so much else has expanded dramatically while religions

and native peoples (with honourable exceptions) continue to

use the language of another age. An update is urgently

required and that is one aim of this book. We will see that:

1 . Themes of religions and native cultures are basically

correct, emphasis often on the basically.

2 . Most accounts have become so inverted and distorted

from the original that billions today are following and

worshipping the very opposite of what they think they are.

3 . We should not be worshipping anybody or anything

when

we

are

the

anybody/everybody

and

anything/everything.

To show this to be true requires a total reevaluation of

what we call ‘reality’ – the ‘world’ we think we ‘see’ and with

which we think we daily interact. I have called this opening

chapter ‘The Biggest Need-To-Know’ because without this

knowledge nothing else can make any sense, and its



suppression has ensured that generation after generation in

culture upon culture complete entire lifetimes while never

answering the basic questions of: Who am I? Where am I?

What am I doing here? There is a fundamental secret behind

why the answers have been kept from us and when that veil

is lifted human society, ancient and modern, morphs into

crystal clarity ... it is indeed a case of Everything You Need

To Know, But Have Never Been Told. Systematically-imposed

ignorance entraps humanity in perceptual servitude and

allows the tiny few to control the very many (Fig 4). If we

are to free ourselves from this tyranny the veil of perceptual

illusion must first be lifted.

F igure 4 : ‘Who am I? Where am I?’

Reality check

The scale of illusion is staggering. Ask all but a relative few

if they live in a solid, ‘physical’ world and they will look at

you in blank bewilderment for even posing the question. ‘Of

course we do – don’t be silly.’ But actually – we don’t. No,

we don’t. Consider that for a moment. Every morning we

experience our solid body getting out of a solid bed to eat

our solid breakfast and head through solid streets in solid

vehicles to go to solid work or solid wherever. But all the

time, there is no solid. As illusions go, they don’t get any

more extreme. I chuckle when I hear the fake news

mainstream media dismissing other versions of events as

‘conspiracy theories’ and ‘too far-fetched to believe’ while

reporting the world from the perspective that everything is

solid when it isn’t. The self-delusion is monumental because

so is the scale of perception programming. I have been

labelled mad and insane for nearly 30 years by mainstream

society – especially the media – on the basis of that very

self-delusion. Many of the things I say are happening would

not be possible if reality was physical and solid, but it’s not.

Those who dismiss and ridicule what I say are coming from

a perception of solidity and have no idea what the world

really is. Hardly surprising, then, that they say I’m crazy. We

are told that our solid, material reality is made of atoms and

that everything is solid and physical because of them. But,

hold on. Atoms have no solidity and so cannot a solid world

make (Fig 5). Atoms are said to have a nucleus orbited by

electrons in a relationship akin to mini-solar systems and

everything else is ‘empty space’. How can this make a solid

world? I contend that the nucleus and electrons have no

solidity either and that even their material existence is

illusory although quantum physics gives them marginal

materiality. Here’s a quote to put that ‘marginal’ into

context: If the nucleus were the size of a peanut, the atom



would be about the size of a baseball stadium. If we lost all

the dead space inside our atoms, we would each be able to

fit into a particle of dust, and the entire human race would

fit into the volume of a sugar cube.

F igure 5 : How can atoms with no solidity create a solid world?

Makes that racism deal look a bit ridiculous, eh? Quantum

physics says that 99.9999999% (and more) of what is called

‘ordinary matter’ is empty space. In fact, space (another

illusion) is not actually empty but bursting with energy that

we can’t see. There is ‘space’ (energy) that we can ‘see’ and

we call this reality; and there is ‘space’ (energy) that we

cannot see and we call this ‘empty’. Human sight is verging

on the blind when you compare what we can see with what

we can’t see. Almost the entirety of infinite existence is

denied to us while we are perceptually-enslaved in a tiny

band of frequency that science calls ‘visible light’ (Fig 6).

The electromagnetic spectrum is only 0.005 percent of what

exists in the Universe in terms of energy and what is

referred to as ‘matter’ (Fig 7). Some say it’s a bit more, but

not much. Think about that – just 0.005 percent. Now

contemplate this: humans can only see a tiny fraction of

that 0.005 percent in the band of visible light (Fig 8). Most of

the rest is called ‘dark energy’ and ‘dark matter’ by

mainstream physics. I don’t buy their version of what this

‘dark’ really is and I use the term only in the sense of it

being unseen by human sight senses. People say that this or

that is not possible and this or that is crazy while virtually

100 percent of what exists in infinite forever is not visible to

them. A little humility is urgently required. Given that

mainstream ‘science’ – quantum physics apart – will largely

not explore beyond the seen and what is considered to be

the ‘tangible’ it becomes clear why its concrete conclusions

have proved to be so inaccurate and often ridiculous. Yet

this same ‘science’ is perceived and promoted today by its

bewildered advocates and believers as the arbiter of all

knowledge. This is extraordinary on the face of it, but then

not so much when you see the whys and wherefores of the

global perception deception. The illusion is so deep that we

have never even touched anything in the way that we think

we have. Oh, but you are holding a book, right? No, you are

holding an electromagnetic field of information (the book)

with electromagnetic fields of information (your hands). The

experience of ‘touch’ is the connection between different

electromagnetic fields. The experience of apparent solidity

is really electromagnetic resistance between energetic fields

of different frequencies or densities. You who are not solid

can’t walk through a wall which is not solid because of

electromagnetic resistance and not physical resistance

because there is no physical. This all sounds so fantastic

and unbelievable to the human conscious mind, but it’s

true. We don’t hear anything until the brain has decoded



electrical communications from our ears. The ears don’t

hear – the brain does. The same applies with sight, taste

and smell. A falling tree makes no noise unless someone is

there to decode vibrational disturbances triggered in the air

into electrical signals that the brain then decodes into the

sound we recognise as a falling tree. Otherwise the tree falls

in silence. We hear human speech only when vibrational

information fields generated by the vocal chords are

decoded by the brain. Modern pain-relief techniques involve

blocking messages from the point of pain from reaching the

brain because until that communication is made you can

feel no discomfort. It’s the brain that says ‘ouch’, not the

point of impact. The entire world that we think we see, in

the form that we think we see it, only exists in a few cubic

centimetres at the back of the brain where visual reality is

decoded. Remember that human society is founded on the

‘physical’ world being ‘real’, tangible and solid, and this

delusion is driving the perceptions and decisions of politics,

medicine, media, corporations and science (quantum

physics apart) – the whole shebang in fact. Everything is

based on the most basic misunderstanding of our very

reality and in the shadows beyond the realm of the seen this

is all by design. Those at the cutting edge of mainstream

science are proving experimentally that ‘physicality’ is an

illusion as genuine scientists and seekers of truth break free

from Stone Age orthodoxy. Here’s a telling quote from artist

and

filmmaker,

Sergio

Toporek:

F igure 6 : Our world is only a band of frequency.





F igure 7 : All we can ‘see’ is a sliver of the 0.005 percent.

F igure 8 : ‘Home’.

Consider that you can see less than 1% of the

electromagnetic spectrum and hear less than 1% of the

acoustic spectrum. 90% of the cells in your body carry

their own microbial DNA and are not ‘you’. The atoms in

your body are 99.9999999999999999% empty space and

none of them are the ones you were born with ... Human

beings have 46 chromosomes, two less than a potato.

The existence of the rainbow depends on the conical

photoreceptors in your eyes; to animals without cones,

the rainbow does not exist. So you don’t just look at a

rainbow, you create it. This is pretty amazing, especially

considering that all the beautiful colours you see

represent less than 1% of the electromagnetic spectrum.

And this is from science magazine, Wonderpedia:

Every second, 11 million sensations crackle along these

[brain] pathways ... The brain is confronted with an

alarming array of images, sounds and smells which it

rigorously filters down until it is left with a manageable list

of around 40. Thus 40 sensations per second make up

what we perceive as reality.

We should let that sink in for a moment. Our reality which

seems so ‘real’ is constructed every second from 40

snapshots of information (‘sensations’) from a potential 11

million. The other 10,900,060 are absorbed by our

subconscious mind while we remain consciously oblivious of

their existence. Quantum physics explores the hidden

realms beyond the ‘seen’ and has demolished the material,

solid, clockwork model of reality pedalled for so long by

mainstream science. Cutting edge quantum physicists have

more in common in their explanation of reality with ancient

seers and shamans than their conventional colleagues in

closet-minded academia. Quantum physics to the ‘scientific’

mainstream is at best an irritant and at worse a catastrophe

to their world-is-solid mindset which dominates and infests

the institutions of human society. So much so that even with

quantum revelations about illusory physicality the rest of

science largely cracks on as if nothing has changed. Oh, but

it has – and fundamentally. Scientific orthodoxy is either

being left behind and becoming an irrelevance or being

forced in an act of survival to think the previously

unthinkable – that they were wrong all along and have

caused generations galore to be equally wrong by falling for

the trap that because people have passed exams and have

letters after their names they must, by definition, know

what they are talking about. History constantly tells us

otherwise. Terms like ‘professor’ and ‘teacher’ are titles

awarded by the state for serving the belief-system of the

state. They are not a confirmation of intelligence and

certainly not of awareness beyond intellectual myopia and

the download of academic convention. That is not to say

that you can’t be an intelligent professor or teacher only

that it is clearly not a requirement of the job. As a real

scientist, Nikola Tesla, said long ago: ‘The day science

begins to study non-physical phenomena, it will make more

progress in one decade than in all the previous centuries of

our existence.’ This is proving to be the case although

‘progress’ is not what you discover but what you do with it.

Our solid world could not be more un-solid and here’s the

kicker: Governments, science, medicine, corporations,

‘education’ and media (what I call collectively the

Mainstream Everything) all produce their decisions, laws,

explanations of reality, treatments and reports on the basis

that it is solid, material and physical. No wonder that human

society is such a basket case. If your whole perception and

decision-making is founded on a belief in reality that could

not possibly be more wrong, then how could that not

produce extremes of madness? Almost the entirety of

human life is skewed wherever you look because of this

most basic misconception about the very reality we are

experiencing. This inversion and perversion of perceived

reality has produced the inversion and perversion that we

call human society. Author Michael Ellner put it so well: Just

look at us. Everything is backwards; everything is upside

down. Doctors destroy health, lawyers destroy justice,

universities destroy knowledge, governments destroy



freedom, the major media destroy information and religions

destroy spirituality.

What’s more, none of that is by chance and all is by

calculated design. The why and by whom will become clear.

F igure 9 : Who are we? A state of being aware.

The All That Is

We are Awareness – a state of being aware. Everything else

is detail and illusion. We are not our body; we are that which

is aware and experiencing through the body (Fig 9).

Awareness in the purest sense has no form but it can

experience through form. In its most expanded state it is not

even energy. It just is. Our awareness is an expression of the

totality of Awareness; hence some religions and native

peoples speak of being aspects or ‘children’ of ‘God’ or the

‘Great Spirit’. Other religions condemn as blasphemy any

claim that we are ‘God’ – what I call Infinite Awareness – in

its endless and various forms. This serves the manufactured

and enslaving belief that we are insignificant, detached,

isolated and powerless. None of this is true at the deepest

of levels, but it serves the agenda of human control by

pedalling an acceptance of impotence, servitude and know-

your-place. The late great English-born philosopher Alan

Watts (1915-1973) was right when he said: ‘God is what no

one admits to being and everyone is.’ Religious frocks are

symbols of this manipulated sense of detachment and

isolation as they stand as sentinels between believers and

the perceived deity. They know ‘God’ better than you do and

the Pope/Rabbi/Imam are His best mates. What breathtaking

nonsense it all is. We are points of attention within Infinite

Awareness as Infinite Awareness infinitely experiences itself



(Figs 10 and 11). This doesn’t mean that every ‘point’ is infinitely aware. If you stand on a mountain you can see a

great panorama, but if you stand in a pitch-black room you

can see nothing. Both are points of attention – awareness –

and yet their perception of reality is dramatically different.

So it is with the human mind and Infinite Awareness in its

totality, or, in current human terms, even vastly less than its

totality. Human consciousness is so asleep, so imprisoned

by illusion, it is hardly ‘conscious’ at all. The droplet is the

ocean and the ocean is the droplet, but not every droplet is

as aware as the ocean if they become perceptually isolated

from the whole (Fig 12). Words like ‘infinite’ and ‘totality’ are



themselves a misnomer for Awareness beyond time and

space (or our perceptions of them) but they serve a purpose

to contrast with human perceptual myopia. Infinite

Awareness just IS. It is an Isness, a state of awareness that

knows all and sees all because it is All. The range of

potential states of awareness, therefore, span All-Possibility

from Infinite Awareness in awareness of itself to someone

who thinks she’s just Mary or Margaret working on the

checkout. Humanity is big-time at the lower end collectively

of this perceptual scale, but, equally big-time, we don’t have

to be.

F igure 1 0 : We are Infinite Awareness infinitely experiencing itself.



F igure 1 1 : Humans are a point of attention within Infinite Awareness

within a

tiny band of frequency called visible light.

F igure 1 2 : Where does the droplet end and the ocean start? They

are One –

and so is human awareness no matter what the background, colour

or creed it

perceives itself to be.





F igure 1 3 : The brilliant blackness as I experienced it in Brazil.

F igure 1 4 : All Possibility, All Potential waiting to manifest.

I have taken psychoactive potions twice, on two nights in

the rainforest of Brazil in 2003, in the form of a plant called

ayahuasca which tastes a bit like liquorice. On the second

night in particular, after I entered an altered state, I spent

five timeless hours lying in the darkness as a strong, loud

voice, taking a female form, spoke to me in detail about the

illusory nature of ‘physical’ reality. It was an extraordinary

experience which I remembered in photographic detail. The

Voice said at the start: ‘All you really need to know is Infinite

Love is the only truth – everything else is illusion.’ These

words were repeated several times: ‘Infinite Love [Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself] is the only truth –

everything else is illusion.’ The Voice said that I was being

taken to where I came from and to where I would return so I

could better understand my current reality. In that moment I

saw a shimmering, radiant blackness of stillness and silence

that somehow shone with incredible brilliance. What was

that again– a shimmering, radiant blackness that shone with

the brilliance of light? Ugh? Words do not exist to describe

what appears to be a bewildering contradiction to the

human conscious mind (Fig 13). ‘This is the Infinite, David’,

the Voice said. Yes, Infinite Awareness in awareness of itself,

the stillness and silence of All-Possibility, All-Potential,

waiting to be imagined into existence (Fig 14). Once again the isolated conscious mind in the thrall of the five-senses

believes that something must move, take form or make

noise to be ‘real’. But all these things are simply possibilities

manifesting from the Infinite Imagination of Infinite

Possibility. Speak and you pull one possibility from All-

Possibility. Stop speaking and your spoken possibility

disappears back into the silence of All-Possibility. Realities

which move, take form and make noise are figments of

Infinite Imagination which manifest as realms of frequency

and vibration that interpenetrate each other like radio and

television stations at different points on the frequency dial.

As the Voice said: ‘If it vibrates, it’s illusion.’ These realities

share the same ‘space’ and don’t interfere with each other

unless they are very close on the ‘dial’. When this happens

we call the result ‘ghosts’ and ‘paranormal activity’. Ghosts

and apparitions can pass through walls because they are

not operating within the same frequency band just as radio

frequencies can pass through walls. I am far from the only

one to have experienced this Infinite Awareness as a vibrant



shining blackness. Many have described the same

experience to me over the years and human ages and sages

of illusory ‘time’ have known of this indescribable, not place,

but state of awareness or being. Near-death experiencers

are a great source of information about the unseen as they

tell of entering a totally different realm of reality after their

consciousness (point of attention) withdraws from the body

at ‘death’ only to return to this reality when the body is

revived (Fig 15). Dr Eben Alexander, an academic

neurosurgeon at Harvard for 15 years, is one such example

with his near-death experience during a week-long coma in

2008. He went into the coma, caused by meningitis,

believing like his scientist father that consciousness exists

only in the brain and cannot continue when the brain has

ceased to function. Put bluntly, dead means dead. This is

the very foundation of mainstream ‘scientific’ dogma they

call ‘evolution’ that leads deeply bewildered academics like

Professor Richard Dawkins at Oxford University to trash any

idea of awareness beyond the grave. The deadly duo of

arrogance and ignorance that entrap the concrete mind of

five-sense academia means that not only do they go on

their clueless way, but they insist that everyone else does

the

same.

Dawkins

said:

F igure 1 5 : Near-death experience when our point of attention

withdraws from the focus and lens of Body/Mind and expands into a

vastly greater sense of

reality.

You cannot be both sane and well educated and disbelieve

in evolution. The evidence is so strong that any sane,

educated person has got to believe in evolution.

Or, put another way: You cannot be both sane and well

educated if you don’t believe what I do. The arrogance of

ignorance defined in a single sentence. Serbian-American

scientist Nikola Tesla (1856-1943), who was way ahead of

the science mainstream, hit the button when he said: The

scientists of today think deeply instead of clearly. One must

be sane to think clearly, but one can think deeply and be

quite insane.

This was the world of Eben Alexander until he opened his

eyes from his coma with news of a completely different

reality and explanation of life itself. He tells his story in his

book, Proof of Heaven, in which he writes about ‘The Core’

or ‘Dazzling Darkness’ from where ‘the purest love

emanated and all is known’. This is what I experienced in

the rainforest of Brazil and ‘Dazzling Darkness’ is a perfect

description of what I saw. ‘The purest love emanated and all

was known’ further describes what I call Infinite Awareness

in awareness of itself: All-Knowing, All-Possibility, All-

Potential. Tesla also talked of ‘The Core’ from which

everything comes: In the Universe there is a core from



which we obtain knowledge, strength and inspiration. I have

not penetrated into the secrets of this core, but I know it

exists.

F igure 1 6 : Everything is one Infinite Awareness having different

experiences -

‘the force that moves all things.’

Ancient and native cultures the world over have their own

names for this force that gives life to everything. Lakota

people in the United States speak of Wakan Tanka or ‘the

force which moves all things’. This is a wonderful description

of the All That Is. ‘Great Spirit’ is another. You can liken

Infinite Awareness to an infinite ocean of infinite possibility.

We give names to ‘different’ oceans like the Atlantic, Pacific

and Indian, but they are all the same body of water. We give

names to people, countries, cultures, trees, mountains, air,

rain, planets, stars and galaxies, but they are all the same

ocean of Infinite Awareness in different manifestations (Fig

16). Once we become disconnected from the influence of

expanded realms of this Awareness our sense of isolation

and apartness from everything else leads to a self-identity

with name, race, culture, religion, job, lifestyle and life story.

These are not who we are, only what we are currently

experiencing. They are an experience, not an ‘I’. This is the

self-identity that I call ‘Phantom Self’ and it is the foundation

of human misery, emotional trauma and control (Fig 17).

The late singer and writer Leonard Cohen said: ‘If you don’t

become the ocean, you’ll be seasick all your life.’ If you

don’t become One with Infinite Awareness you’ll only

perceive a little isolated ‘me’ powerless in the face of forces

and events you cannot control. Oh, but you can. Near-death

experiencers galore have described realities outside the

perceptual prison of the body in extremely common terms.

One said: ‘It’s like being half asleep when I was alive, and

totally awake after I was pronounced dead.’ Anita Morjani,

author of Dying to be Me, said after her own out-of-body

experience: ‘When we are not expressing in our physical

body, you and I and all of us ... we are expressions of the

same consciousness.’ This has been a theme of enlightened

people throughout the ages and quantum physics is now

beginning to catch on and catch up. Anita said that in her

out-of-body state of awareness she experienced ‘a realm of

clarity where I understood everything’ and ‘I felt connected

to everybody’. She was experiencing ‘the force that moves

all things’ and connects everything as One. Anita makes a

very potent in/out of the body analogy of a torch beam and

a warehouse. Imagine you are in a pitch-black warehouse

with a torch in your hand. All you can see is anything within

the beam of the torch. Everything else is invisible or hidden

(Fig 18). This is symbolic of the tiny range of frequency –

visible light – that the human body can decode and we

therefore ‘see’. Then, symbolic of awareness withdrawing



from the body, someone turns on the lights right across the

warehouse. Now you can see the enormity of what you were

part of all along, but could not see when your perceptions

were limited to the light of the torch (Fig 19). I have just

described what happens at ‘death’ – you know that

inevitability that terrifies most of the human race. Body-

Mind decodes visual reality only within the tiny frequency

band of visible light and when our awareness withdraws

from the body it withdraws from that telescope-focus and

suddenly perception massively expands. There is no ‘death’

of awareness, only the end of its temporary vehicle for a

particular experience. Fear of death is only the ignorance of

life. Or, as Rumi, a 13th century Sufi mystic, said:

F igure 1 7 : The fake self-identity that holds humanity in servitude to

illusion.

This place is a dream. Only a sleeper considers it real.

Then death comes like dawn and you wake up laughing at

what you thought was your grief.

This ‘place’ is only a tiny band of frequency while Forever

lies beyond its perceptual walls. I will be exposing at length

the architects of those walls or firewalls as they really are. I

have used the following quote from a near-death

experiencer several times in my books because it is such an

encapsulation of reality outside the body: ... everything from

the beginning, my birth, my ancestors, my children, my

wife, everything comes together simultaneously. I saw

everything about me, and about everyone who was around



me. I saw everything they were thinking now, what they

thought then, what was happening before, what was

happening now. There is no time, there is no sequence of

events, no such thing as limitation, of distance, of period, of

place. I could be anywhere I wanted to be simultaneously.

F igure 1 8 : A great analogy for the frequency band we call the

‘world’.



F igure 1 9 : We are part of something far bigger and ultimately

infinite.

And this comes from academic neurosurgeon Eben

Alexander:

To experience thinking outside the brain is to enter a

world of instantaneous connections that make ordinary

thinking (those aspects limited by the physical brain and

the speed of light) seem like some hopelessly sleepy and

plodding event ...

... Our truest, deepest self is completely free. It is not

crippled or compromised by past actions or concerned

with identity or status. It comprehends that it has no need



to fear the earthly world, and therefore, it has no need to

build itself up through fame or wealth or conquest.

This is the reality of life outside the body and there is a

force that has sought – mostly very successfully – to keep

this from us and imprison our perception in a sense of

limitation, I can’t and that’s not possible. There is so much

more to ‘humanity’ than we have ever understood and what

testament to the scale of illusion that so many have been

killed, tortured and burned-at-the-stake for revealing this

truth or parts of it. The whole foundation of human control

can be described in a single sentence: Disconnecting the

‘incarnate’ human mind (what I will call Body-Mind) from the

influence of our Infinite Self or disconnecting the ‘incarnate’

droplet from the ocean (Fig 20). Everything comes from this

and without such disconnection the depth and scale of

human perceptual control would be impossible. We will see

as we progress how the very fine detail of human society is

structured to take that symbolic mountain panorama and

lock it away in the pitch-black room. Humanity is imprisoned

by its sense of reality which comes from its point of

attention (Fig 21). Awake philosopher Alan Watts said that

the ego (Body-Mind) is ‘nothing other than the focus of

attention’. This is exactly what it is and so what more potent

form of perceptual control could there than to focus

attention – sense of reality – only in that tiny sliver of

frequency called visible light?

F igure 2 0 : The bottom-line of human enslavement.



F igure 2 1 : If our attention can be focused only in the five senses we

cease to

be influenced in our perception of reality by our expanded levels of

awareness

beyond the illusion.

Imagine all the people ... (and everything

else) The still and silent All That Is produces what is called

‘Creation’ through the imagination of its points of attention

large and small. This can be anything from creating entire

‘worlds’ to doodling in a notebook. There can be error, too,

in such creations – witness the creation of the atomic bomb.

The All That Is can be capable of error?? Not in its purest

and most expanded expression, but its points of attention

can. Even then what is ‘error’ except another form of

experience and what is experience except the road to

wisdom and remembering our true identity? How often do

our biggest ‘mistakes’ turn out to be our greatest gifts?

According to ancient accounts which concur with my own

research and conclusions our very current reality was the

result of ‘error’ and I’ll be explaining much more about this

in due course. We should also not forget that if we are

talking about a state of All-Possibility then ‘error’ is a

possibility and without this there cannot be a state of All-

Possibility. In the same way, All-Possibility means that the All

That Is or Infinite Awareness is everything and nothing,

everywhere and nowhere, it is and it isn’t. This has to be the

case or it would not be All-Possibility or Infinite Imagination.

So everything is within nothing and nothing is within

everything. Nowhere is within everywhere and everywhere

is within nowhere. Once we grasp the nature of All-

Possibility and Infinite Imagination in the fullness of its

meaning all paradox disappears. Infinite Awareness is not

energy but produces energy as an imagination of All-

Possibility. Creations of Infinite Imagination and the

imaginations of its imagination can manifest as the realms

of what we call energy, frequency and vibration. The further

these imagined creations themselves create and become

detached from a state of Infinite Awareness in awareness of

itself the more they fall into ever lower frequencies and so

states of illusion. If they fall far enough they end up in the

energetic densities that we call ‘matter’. Legendary

American comedian Bill Hicks (1961-1994), who had

countless experiences in psychoactive drug-induced altered

states, said: ‘... All matter is merely energy condensed to a

slow vibration ... we are all one consciousness experiencing

itself subjectively; there is no such thing as death, life is

only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves’. This

is what the illusion of ‘physical’ matter really is – energy

vibrating so slowly that it gives the appearance of solidity.

Scientists don’t come much more famous than Albert

Einstein and yet he said the same as a comedy club

comedian. To know does not require some great formal

education (programming); it means simply to know.

Mainstream education is structured to stop us knowing by

enslaving our perceptions of the possible and it is no

coincidence that Einstein also said: ‘The only thing that

interferes with my learning is my education.’ Einstein’s

explanation of matter was the same as Bill Hicks:

Concerning matter, we have been all wrong. What we have

called matter is really energy, whose vibration has been

lowered as to be perceptible to the senses. There is no

matter. There is only light and sound.

There is only light (energy) and sound (vibration) which

together give the illusion of physicality when the vibration is

slow enough and within the frequency band of visible light

(visible energy). The slower energy vibrates the more ‘solid’

it appears to be – say a wall – and the faster it vibrates the

less-dense and even ethereal it appears to be. If it vibrates

fast enough to breach the frequency band of visible light

then we can’t see it. When people talk of seeing something

‘appear out of nowhere’ or ‘disappear before my eyes’ they

are describing phenomena that enter the frequency band of

visible light and then change frequency to go beyond it.

Now you see it, now you don’t, now you decode it, now you

don’t. Academics dismiss such descriptions with regard to

‘UFOs’ and ‘aliens’ appearing and disappearing because

they don’t understand what reality is. Those more aware of

how energy interacts with consciousness (is consciousness)

can perform apparent ‘miracles’ which are not miracles at

all. They are the result of knowing how reality works. Body-

Mind perception has to call this the ‘paranormal’ to compare

it with its pea-sized sense of ‘normal’ downloaded from

cradle to grave from Mainstream Everything. Academics and

mainstream scientists download this pea-sized version of

reality more than anyone else and then tell us what we

should and should not believe. It would hilarious if it wasn’t

so tragic.



F igure 2 2 : Different ‘worlds’ or realities are different bands of

frequency like

analogue radio and television stations on different parts of the dial.

© www.neilhague.com

Computer Universe

We have Infinite Awareness in awareness of itself that

pervades everything – ‘the force which moves all things’ –

and its Creation and creations that express themselves as

realms of energy, frequency and vibration. These creations,

‘worlds’ or realities can share the same ‘space’ (or the

illusion of it) because they operate on different frequencies

(Fig 22). What we call our visible Universe is one such

frequency-band reality and operates as a quantum

computer system. These are defined as ‘a computer that

makes use of the quantum states of electrons and other

particles to store and process information’. Put more simply

the Universe is a quantum computer that stores information

in the very energetic fabric of our reality and the computing

power of quantum states is absolutely off the scale. Current

computers are limited by their choice between 1 and 0

which represent charges of electricity that are either on or

off. Quantum computing has no such limits and is quite

capable of creating and processing universes. Think of a

cosmic Wi-Fi field or fields (Fig 23). You can’t see Wi-Fi, but a

computer can decode that hidden information source into a

global collective reality on the screen that we call the

Internet or World Wide Web. The Universe is information

stored in the unseen (like you can’t see Wi-Fi) and what I will

call the human Body-Mind is a biological computer (in the

widest possible sense of that definition) which decodes the

‘Wi-Fi’ information construct of the Universe into a

perception of ‘physical’ reality on our screen – what we

experience as the brain and genetic structure as a whole

(Fig 24). Elite and massively funded projects around the

world are developing quantum computers that mimic our

very reality with monsters like Google seeking to lead the

way for reasons that will become clear. Here’s another point

staring us in the face: We have quantum physics because

the Universe is a quantum computer! Our quantum

computer Universe is interactive in the sense that we take

information and perceptions from the energetic construct

and ‘post’ our own thoughts, perceptions and emotions to

impact on the Universe. I call it the Cosmic Internet (Fig 25).

The human body/brain is a biological quantum computer

and so are planets, stars and everything in our reality as

expressions of the quantum computer Universe. Cosmic ‘Wi-

Fi’ or waveform information fields are the foundation of the

Universe and we decode the Universe that we think we ‘see’

from those fields in the way I will be describing. The

Universe can be summed up in one word – information; and

even more accurately in five – information encoding and

decoding information (Fig 26). The computer/Internet

analogy is apt again. A desktop computer is information

encoded to decode information and information sources like

disks, data sticks and the Internet are encoded to be

decoded. Everything is interacting, encoded and decoded

information and so is our ‘physical’ reality. The only place

that the Internet appears as we experience it with graphics,

pictures and text is on the screen. Everywhere else it is

information in other forms and the same is true of the way

we decode reality. The foundation state of the Universe is

waveform information or what some call the Metaphysical

Universe (Fig 27). Our five senses convert this waveform

information source into electrical signals and send them to

the brain which constructs the reality that we think we see,



touch, taste, hear and smell. Take a simple flame on a

candle. This seems to be so ‘real’, but it is only decoded

electromagnetic energy (information). We create the flame

that we think we see. Robert Lanza, an American medical

doctor and scientist, writes in his excellent book,

Biocentrism (co-written with Bob Berman), that a flame is

merely hot gas emitting photons which are tiny packets of

electromagnetic energy, each pulsing electrically and

magnetically. The brain produces the flame that we see by



decoding

that

information.

Lanza

explains:

F igure 2 3 : An image of what Wi-Fi might look like if we could see its

frequency

band.

F igure 2 4 : Our reality is like Wi-Fi – a sea of information that we

decode into

what we perceive as a ‘solid’ world.





F igure 2 5 : Internet symbolism is very close to the truth and the

connection is



through waveform information, electricity and electromagnetism.

F igure 2 6 : The Universe is an interactive wireless cosmos in which

everything

is encoded and decoded information.

F igure 2 7 : The foundation level of the Universe is waveform –

information

carried in waves.

It is easy to recall from every day experience that neither

electricity nor magnetism have visual properties. So, on

its own, it’s not hard to grasp that there is nothing

inherently visual, nothing bright or coloured about the

candle

flame.

Now,

let

these

same

invisible

electromagnetic waves strike a human retina, and if (and

only if) the waves happen to measure between 400 and

700 nano meters in length from crest to crest, then their

energy is just right to deliver a stimulus to the 8 million

cone-shaped cells in the retina.

Each in turn send an electrical pulse to a neighbor neuron,

and on up the line this goes, at 250 mph, until it reaches

the warm, wet occipital lobe of the brain, in the back of

the head. There, a cascading complex of neurons fire from

the incoming stimuli, and we subjectively perceive this

experience as a yellow brightness occurring in a place we

have been conditioned to call the ‘external world’.

Talk about illusion. Alan Watts said:

... [Without the brain] the world is devoid of light, heat,

weight, solidity, motion, space, time or any other

imaginable feature. All these phenomena are interactions,

or transactions, of vibrations with a certain arrangement

of neurons.

And Morpheus told an incredulous Neo in the first Matrix

movie:

What is real? How do you define ‘real’? If you’re talking

about what you can feel, what you can smell, taste and

see, then ‘real’ is simply electrical signals interpreted by

your brain.

That’s all it is, this ‘physical’ world that seems so ‘real’.

We see images on television only because of the same

decoding process. Screen images are an arrangement of

pixels which the brain decodes into the pictures that we

think are outside of us and constructs the illusion of

movement by literally connecting the dots (Fig 28). We see

television as moving pictures only because our brains link

together still images into an apparent sequence. This also

happens with LED screens, video games and human reality.

We experience movement in our illusory dreams and what

we call conscious reality is just another dream. New

Scientist magazine said in a 2009 article that under

magnification ‘the fabric of space-time becomes grainy and

is ultimately made of tiny units rather like pixels’. I have

been referring to the body as a biological computer since

way back and now I am seeing some mainstream scientists

using the term. We think of ‘biological’ as ‘natural’, but it is

in fact a form of technology when compared to Infinite

Awareness. The body is an extraordinarily advanced

computer system (once again in the widest possible sense)

which ‘dies’ when it ceases to function (so does a

computer); goes into sleep mode to conserve energy (so

does a computer); has an immune system (so does a

computer – antivirus software); has a brain (so does a

computer, the central processing unit, or CPU, known as the

computer brain); and has a hard drive, DNA etc. (so does a

computer). The reason they can now connect a human brain

with a computer and make the computer respond to thought

is because they are connecting two computer systems (Fig

29). One is technological and the other biological or another

form of technology. The human body has the equivalent of a

computer motherboard with its genetic network and the

meridian lines of energy on which the healing art of

acupuncture is based (Fig 30). Acupuncture needles and

other techniques are designed to balance the flow of energy

(information) through those pathways to maintain

information balance and communication in the constant

interaction between body and Cosmic Internet. When those

flows are out of balance we enter a state of disharmony or

disease – what we call ‘physical’ or psychological illness. We

say ‘my computer is so slow today’ when information flows

are out of sync and cause the computer to malfunction.

Many laugh at the concept of acupuncture and ask ‘how can

you cure a headache with a needle in the foot?’

Acupuncture meridians operate in circuits and if the

blockage in the circuit causing the headache is in the foot it

makes no sense putting the needle in the head. The

meridian system connects with the ‘chakra’ vortex points

throughout the body’s electromagnetic field which connect

the body with the Cosmic Internet and other levels of reality



(Fig 31). Chakra means ‘wheels of light’ in the Sanskrit

language of ancient India and the main ones are: the crown

chakra on top of the head (where I felt the ‘drill’ energy on

the hill in Peru); brow (or ‘third eye’) chakra in the centre of

the forehead; throat chakra; heart chakra in the centre of

the chest; solar plexus chakra just below the sternum;

sacral chakra just beneath the navel; and base chakra at

the bottom of the spine. Each one has a particular function

or functions. The sacral chakra in the lower belly processes

emotion and so we feel anxiety and nervousness in that

area. At its most extreme this affects the colon and gives

people ‘the shits’ and makes them ‘shit scared’. We feel

love, empathy and compassion in the chest because that





where the heart chakra vortex is located within the body’s

electromagnetic field.

F igure 2 8 : The brain decodes this into the television pictures that we

think we

see, but in reality decode.



F igure 2 9 : Connecting two computer systems, technological and

biological.

F igure 3 0 : Meridian lines in acupuncture are the body’s

‘motherboard’.

F igure 3 1 : Seven major vortex points or ‘chakras’ interpenetrating

the human

energy field with the heart chakra at the centre.

Our five senses of sight, hearing, taste, touch and smell

are decoding systems. They take waveform information

from the Cosmic Internet and turn it into electrical

information which they communicate to the brain. These are

different forms of the same information. Different parts of

the brain specialise in decoding information from different

senses (Fig 32). The brain decodes electrical information

into digital and holographic (illusory ‘physical’) information

that we perceive in our heads as the ‘world around us’ (Fig

33). There is in fact is no world ‘around’ us and everything

exists only in the brain and genetic structure in the form

that we think we are experiencing ‘outside’ of ourselves.

Computers work the same way. Information decoding

systems and what appears on the screen are all happening

inside the computer (Fig 34). There is a phenomenon called

synaesthesia in which senses merge and someone can hear

words and music while at the same time tasting them.

Different words and songs in their experience have different



tastes. Our decoding processes and how they function

create our reality inside the brain. Everything I have said

here about the brain and the senses is confirmed by the

experience of playing virtual reality video games which

‘hack’ into the five senses and override their ‘normal’

decoded reality with another artificial information source

that appears to be so ‘real’ (Figs 35 and 36). A writer in a British newspaper described the experience of playing one

such game:

F igure 3 2 : Different parts of the brain specialise in decoding

information from

different senses. Everything we see no matter how far ‘away’ it

appears to be



exists in the form that we experience in the small vision area at the

back.

F igure 3 3 : We decode waveform and electrical/electromagnetic

information

into digital and holographic states that appear to us as the solid world

of human

reality.

... the striking aspect of the game is the physical

sensation of playing it. I feel and therefore believe that I

am physically moving back and forth, as though I am on a

chair on wheels. External reality has fallen away and I am

in a strange and compelling world, anxious not to fall off

the terrifying precipices. My brain sends signals to my

body that create the illusion that it’s shooting around like





a pinball, when in fact I am stationary.

F igure 3 4 : The five senses decode waveform information into

electrical

information and communicate this to the brain to be decoded into



digital/holographic information.

F igure 3 5 : Videogames are simply hacking into the five senses to

override the

information sources they normally decode and present us with a

different reality.

F igure 3 6 : It may only be computerised electrical information but the

reality

people decode can seem very ‘real’.

That could have been a description of human life because

the principles are just the same. I saw an experiment which

involved a doll wearing a virtual reality headset. A group of

people were also given headsets that produced the illusion

that their bodies were the doll’s body. The doll was then

touched, had an injection in the eye and messed with in

other ways and each time the group reacted as if it was

being done to them. They were feeling in their own bodies

what was being done to the doll. This is how powerful and

perception-controlling even virtual reality at the current

human level of development can be never mind what is

actually possible.

We are One

No matter how solid something appears to be, it is

waveform energy in its foundation state and at this level it

becomes possible to communicate with animals, plants and

even apparently inanimate phenomena like rocks.

Everything is consciousness and alive as an expression of

Infinite Awareness whether it is a mountain, stream or

forest. Mainstream scientific studies are slowly beginning to

acknowledge what awakened people have known all along,

that everything is consciousness and connected to

everything else. Evidence mounts to confirm that trees

communicate, feel pain, care for each other and organise as

communities and this is true of everything. Some scientists

are asking if trees and plants have brains, but a brain is only

a means of decoding information and in that sense

everything has a ‘brain’ because everything is constantly

receiving and transmitting information. In five-sense reality

this is done electrically and electromagnetically and you

don’t need a big chunk of grey ‘matter’ to do that. There are

endless other receiver-transmission processes through

which this can happen. Monica Gagliano, an evolutionary

biologist at the University of Western Australia, concluded

after a series of experiments that plants use sound waves to

detect water at a distance and have the ability to learn.

Heidi Appel, an environmental scientist now at the

University of Toledo, led a team of researchers in a study

that showed how a plant could distinguish between the

sounds of wind vibrations and a caterpillar chewing. The

plant’s chemical state reacted differently when the two

sounds were played and produced more defence toxins in

response

to

caterpillar

chomping.

‘We

tend

to

underestimate plants because their responses are usually

less visible to us, but leaves turn out to be extremely

sensitive vibration detectors,’ Appel said. Buzzing bees

generate a frequency that has been shown to trigger plants

to release pollen (they call it ‘buzz pollination’) and other

sounds have caused hormonal changes in plants. Dr

Suzanne Simard at the University of British Columbia in

Vancouver discovered that trees transmit warnings with

chemical electrical signals through fungal networks under

the soil. A teaspoon of forest soil contains miles of them.

The fungi operate like fibre-optic internet cables and this

system has become known as the ‘wood wide web’. Such

networks operate at every level of the Cosmic Internet. This

principle of communicating through sound and frequency

explains the effect good and bad of chants and mantras.

Everything is alive, conscious and part of an infinite web of

life and consciousness (Fig 37). Michael Pollan, an author

and researcher on these subjects, said of trees and plants:

They have ways of taking all the sensory data they gather in

their everyday lives ... integrate it and then behave in an

appropriate way in response. And they do this without

brains, which, in a way, is what’s incredible about it,

because we automatically assume you need a brain to

process information.

But what is the brain except a form of information and

information can be processed in infinite different ways by

infinite expressions of consciousness. The ignorant laugh

and dismiss suggestions that we can communicate with

animals, trees, plants or rocks because they can only

perceive communication through human language. At the

waveform level and beyond we are all connected to each

other, and communication can happen not through words

but through the waveform connection which you can liken to

telepathy. An article in Scientific American magazine about

black holes as computers said: ... to a physicist, all physical

systems are computers. Rocks, atom bombs and galaxies

may not run Linux, but they, too, register and process



information. Every electron, photon and other elementary

particle stores bits of data, and every time two such

particles interact, those bits are transformed. Physical

existence and information content are inextricably linked.

F igure 3 7 : Everything is alive and aware and an expression of

Infinite

Awareness – the force that moves all things.

Information content and the illusion of physical existence

are inextricably linked because what we perceive as

physical is information content. Form is in-form-ation

decoded from waveform states (Fig 38). ‘Physical reality’

including the body is made manifest through standing or

stationary waves of information. Funny how the guy

describing his experience playing computer games said: ‘My

brain sends signals to my body that create the illusion that

it’s shooting around like a pinball, when in fact I am

stationary.’ He was unknowingly telling a profound truth

about reality itself. To create standing waves you need a

block or ‘wall’ at each end called a node point which causes

a wave travelling in one direction to bounce back in the

other direction and interact with itself coming the other way.

This bounced-back wave then strikes the other wall or node

point and returns in the other direction to create a perpetual

motion of back and forth that itself creates a state of

oscillation (Fig 39). When the two identical expressions of

the same wave interact they cancel each other out in terms

of forward movement and create a wave that oscillates up

and down or ‘jogs’ (stands) on the spot. Funnily enough the

result looks like DNA and that is related to the fact that the

body and ‘physical’ forms in general are manifested from

standing waves retaining particular information in a

particular oscillating field (Fig 40). While the standing wave

field is oscillating your body is alive and the moment it stops

we call death. The human heartbeat is an expression of this

oscillation and heart disease is actually a disruption to the

oscillation which the heart is only reflecting. From this

comes the fact that in the world of form everything

‘vibrates’ – ‘If it vibrates it’s illusion.’ I say that what we call

the Universe is itself one big standing wave of information

that oscillates – ‘moves back and forth in a regular rhythm’.

How right we are to talk about the rhythm of life. German

biophysicist Fritz-Albert Popp discovered that DNA vibrates

or oscillates to a particular frequency and I say this relates

to the standing wave. Russian researchers led by molecular

biologist and biophysicist Pjotr Garjajev found that DNA not

only receives and transmits information, but absorbs and

processes it. This is how human genetics can be changed

from afar by frequency (information carried by the

frequency) and how DNA can be programmed. This will be

very significant as we proceed. What we call ‘evolution’ with

species changing to stay in sync with a changing

environment and developing gifts perfect for survival comes





from the information interaction between the quantum field

of possibility and probability, DNA and the human energetic

field. The whole body is an antenna including bone and skin

because in their prime state they are waveform

electromagnetic fields. Grazyna Fosar and Franz Bludorf

write in the German book, Vernetzte Intelligenz:



F igure 3 8 : The illusion of what we think we see.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 3 9 : Standing or stationary waves that hold information in

place until the

frequency is disturbed or switched off.

F igure 4 0 : ‘Standing wave’ DNA.

The latest research explains phenomena such as

clairvoyance, intuition, spontaneous and remote acts of

healing, self-healing, affirmation techniques, unusual light-

auras around people (namely spiritual masters), mind’s

influence on weather-patterns and much more.

The Russian scientists also found out that our DNA can

cause disturbing patterns in the vacuum, thus producing

magnetized wormholes! Wormholes are the microscopic

equivalents of the so-called Einstein-Rosen bridges in the

vicinity of black holes (left by burned-out stars). These are

tunnel connections between entirely different areas in the

universe through which information can be transmitted

outside of space and time. The DNA attracts these bits of

information and passes them on to our consciousness.

Whatever happened to ‘Little Me’? By expanding the

frequency band on which DNA is operating (by expanding

our consciousness) we can connect with other realities

beyond the five senses as psychics and mediums do. We

can heal and be healed remotely by using our

consciousness to deliver harmonising frequencies to

another’s DNA. We can do this to ourselves through

consciousness communication with our own DNA. This is the

background to how mind can ‘miraculously’ heal the body.

There is nothing miraculous about this at all. Reality is

designed to make this possible, but that knowledge has

been suppressed to keep us in ignorance of our true power.

Placebo pills trick the mind into believing they will be

effective in curing illness and the mind’s perception of this is

communicated subconsciously to the body which then

responds to that perception and heals itself. Surgeon

Andrew Carr, professor of orthopaedic surgery at the

University of Oxford, said that thousands of patients may be

cured not by the operation but by a belief that an

(unnecessary) operation would remove the problem: Having

to stop work, having to change your life, coming into

hospital, all of these people dressed in blue with hats on,

you’re anaesthetised ... All of that, if we believe in placebo,

is surely a set-up to create a phenomenal placebo effect.

Studies have shown that patients who have fake surgery,

but believe they have had the real thing, can recover almost

or equally as well as those who have genuinely had the

operation. Everything in all infinite existence is

consciousness/awareness interacting with itself.

DNA is a receiver-transmitter Mainstream

science has said that at most only five percent of DNA is

active at a ‘physical’ level and the other 95 percent has

been dismissed as ‘junk DNA’ because it appeared to have

no function – we don’t understand what it does and so it

can’t be doing anything. This almost entirety of DNA

operates in, and interacts with, the unseen. Russian

researchers have established that DNA is encoded with the

same structure and rules that can be found in all human

languages. DNA and the body in general is indeed a

biological computer and if you know how to program the

software you can cure anything you want, stem the ageing

process and extend lifespan almost as long as you choose.

Instead of exploring these incredible frontiers the Elite

families and their networks manipulating human society

seek to conceal this knowledge and, in terms of health,

allow the pharmacological death cult to have its wicked way.

Scientists from Columbia University and the New York

Genome Center announced in March 2017 they had

discovered a way to use DNA to store, replicate and retrieve

digital files in the way you would with a computer hard

drive. How long I have been saying that DNA is on one level

like a computer hard drive that stores information. You don’t

need a university to understand reality because this

information is in the Cosmic Internet all around us if people

only tune-in to those frequencies. The often barely-one-

dimensional, physical-obsessed scientific mind is so welded

to five-sense reality that it becomes desensitised and

disconnected from the library of insight in the information

sea in which we all ‘swim’. Crystals are used in receiver-

transmission technology and the human body is crystalline

for the same reason. We have trillions of cells and the

membrane of every one is a liquid crystal. The crystalline

pineal gland in the brain is part of the so-called ‘third eye’

which can connect us to frequencies in other realities. We

are receivers, transmitters, decoders and processors of

information interacting with the Cosmic Internet. One way

DNA communicates is through what science calls biophotons

in the visible and ultraviolet spectrum, which are emitted by

biological systems. Nikola Tesla said the brain ‘is only a

receiver’ and that is clearly so. Consciousness does not

come from the brain but through the brain which is a

processor of information both from the five senses and



consciousness beyond this reality. It is our choice what level

of awareness we allow our brain to process into conscious

perception (Fig 41). For this reason we have people with

very different awareness interacting with each other in

human society with the most aware facing the ridicule and

distain of the unaware (Fig 42). Did I mention the inversion?

Writer Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) said: ‘When a true genius

appears, you can know him by this sign: That all the dunces

are in a confederacy against him.’ He might have said

‘unaware’ rather than dunces and the point is that people

don’t have to be unaware. They have allowed themselves to

be. The brain is saying ‘what do you want me to be?’ It is

now known that the brain has ‘placidity’ and changes

according to information received and this is why the almost

constant electrical stimulation from ‘smart’ technology is

changing the way the brain processes information into the

perceptions of the conscious mind. If people self-identify as

Phantom Self or five-sense self the brain will process

information at that level, but when we open our minds to

expanded awareness the brain restructures or rewires to

process that.



F igure 4 1 : What scale of information do we allow our brains to

process?

Openness of mind will decide.

F igure 4 2 : The same ‘physical’ reality but different points of

observation. The

Great Inversion means that those who tap into expanded awareness

are called

mad by those who don’t.

You see it when you, er, see it A few scientists

over the years have postulated that the ‘physical’ world

only exists when we look at it. They call this the ‘Observer

Effect’. Support for this contention is now gathering in the

science community – among those who have ditched the

song sheet that is – but I suggest they are missing the key

word here: decoding. It is not so much the ‘Observer Effect’

as the ‘Decoder Effect’. The connection between the two is

that the act of ‘observation’ or focus activates the decoding

systems of the brain-body. When we are not ‘looking’

(decoding) then reality is always in a waveform state. Only

when we decode waveform information into what is

holographic information does the ‘3D’ world that we know

appear to us – in our own minds (Fig 43). We are seeing

more and more mainstream headlines like this one: ‘Your

entire life is an ILLUSION: New test backs up theory that the

world doesn’t exist until we look at it’. The article goes on to

say that the famous theory in quantum mechanics which

argues that a particle’s behaviour changes based on what

we see had now been proved to be true on the scale of



atoms in a new experiment by scientists at the Australian

National University. ‘At the quantum level, reality does not

exist if you are not looking at it,’ said Associate Professor

Andrew Truscott. There is another aspect to this as well.

Perceptions of the observer influence the way we decode

reality from the information possibilities and probabilities

encoded in the Cosmic Internet. Two different perceptions of

reality will not decode exactly the same outcome in the

same way. The process is encompassed in this quote from

writer

Joseph

Michael

Straczynski:

F igure 4 3 : ‘Focus – ‘observation’ – triggers the decoding process

that turns

waveform information into the illusory ‘external world’. Without the

observer

(decoder) everything remains in waveform.

Accidents happen, that’s what everyone says. But in a

quantum Universe there are no such things as accidents,

only possibilities and probabilities folded into existence by

perception.

Yes – perception. Endless experiments have shown how

people add things to their visual reality that are not actually

there, but they believe should be (an expression of the 40

from 11 million deal). My biggest book in terms of volume is

called The Perception Deception because the entire control

system of human society is based on the manipulation of

perception. Those in the shadows that know how we interact

with reality (but don’t want us to know) are well aware that

if they can program our perceptions we will decode our

experienced reality in a way that reflects those perceptions.

This is the whole foundation of how the few control the

many through the manipulation of perception. What we

believe we perceive, and what we perceive we experience.

This is not supposition, it is physics. George Berkeley (1685-

1753), after whom Berkeley University is named, could see

that material reality was an illusion and he said: ‘The only

things we perceive are our perceptions.’ This can be

confirmed on the most basic level in that a person who sees

the glass as half empty will not experience (decode from

quantum possibility and probability) the same outcome as

one who sees the glass filled to the brim. A more extreme

example is firewalking. When you walk barefoot on red-hot

coals with the belief that you will get burned then that is

what will happen; but if you go into an altered state of

consciousness (altered sense of reality) you can do the

same and not get burned, as firewalkers all over the world

have shown (Fig 44). An illusion cannot burn an illusion

unless you believe it can and so decode that reality from a

perception of that reality. Associate Professor Andrew



Truscott said that his ‘your entire life is an illusion’

experiment showed that ‘the atoms did not travel from A to

B ... and it was only when they were measured at the end of

the journey that their wave-like or particle-like behaviour

was brought into existence’. Or it was decoded into

existence by the impact and influence of focus and

perception. The Voice that I heard in the ayahuasca

experience in Brazil said: ‘Why do you fly from point A to

point B when you are point A and point B and everything in

between?’ I saw an article in Epoch Times headed ‘Your Mind

Can Control Matter: Physicist’ which said of another

experiment:

F igure 4 4 : An illusion can’t burn an illusion unless you believe that it

can.

Atomic particles were shown to also be waves. Whether

they manifested as waves or as particles depended on

whether someone was looking. Observation influenced the

physical reality of the particles – in more technical

language, observation collapsed the wave function.

Waves collapse into particles (or appear to) when

observed because they are being decoded by that act of

observation and focus in an interaction between mind and

energetic information. Waves collapse (are decoded into) an

illusory ‘physical’ world of particles and atoms, but these

are only another expression of waves. Everything is waves

(Fig 45). The Cosmic Internet is a waveform energetic

information construct that provides the information

blueprint for what we call the world, but what we decode as

detail and outcome depends on the perceptions and state of

mind of the observer. Waveform reality is a series of

quantum possibilities and probabilities and it is

consciousness (perception) that dictates which of those



probabilities and possibilities in the energetic fabric of the

Cosmic Internet are (waveform collapsed) into experienced

reality. Control perception and you control everything. John

Wheeler, a Nobel physicist, said: ‘No phenomenon is a real

phenomenon until it is an observed phenomenon. Or as I

would say: a decoded phenomenon. The dream is the

dreamer and the dreamer is the dream because the dream

is a decoded extension or projection of the dreamer. ‘All that

we see or seem is just a dream within a dream’, as Edgar

Allen Poe said. If you want to control the dream you must

control the perceptions of the dreamer and that’s the global

conspiracy to enslave humanity in a single sentence. How

real and ‘physical’ some dreams can be while we are asleep



to the ‘physical’ world. Dreams can be symbolic

representations of mental and emotional states or

connections to different wavelengths of reality measured by

the nature of different brainwave states – beta, delta etc.

The deepest of them (the sleep the Greeks called ‘Hypnos’)

are way beyond the perceived world of the ‘physical’. I have

incredibly vivid dreams almost every night while in almost

coma-like states and they are as ‘physically’ real on their

wavelength as the world of five-sense mind.

F igure 4 5 : Collapsing the waves into holographic ‘particle’ reality.



F igure 4 6 : Tom’s brain/mind was firewalled by hypnotic suggestion

not to

decode his daughter’s waveform field into holographic reality ...

F igure 4 7 : ... only when he did could he see his daughter in the

realm of his

conscious mind.

I have told many times one particular story that perfectly

explains how we decode reality and the amazing depth of

the illusion we are experiencing. Michael Talbot was a writer

and researcher who produced an outstanding book in the

1990s called The Holographic Universe. This is a compelling

pull-together of the work, findings and conclusions of open-

minded scientists from the mainstream who believe that our

‘physical’ reality is really a holographic illusion. Talbot tells

the story in the book of when his father had a party for

friends and invited along a stage hypnotist to entertain the

guests. At one point a man called Tom was induced into a

hypnotic state and told that when he ‘woke up’ he would not

be able to see his daughter. The hypnotist led the daughter

to stand right in front of her father and then apparently re-

awakened him to his conscious mind. Tom was asked if he

could see his daughter. He said he couldn’t even though he

was looking directly into her belly. The hypnotist put his

hand in the small of the daughter’s back and asked Tom if

he could see what he was holding. ‘You are holding a watch’,

Tom replied, even though his daughter stood between him

and the watch. He was asked if he could read an inscription

on the watch and he did. The story appears to be

impossible, but it’s not. Our five senses and brain-body are

also waveform information in their prime state and the

‘physical’ brain is only a holographic expression of the

waveform ‘brain’. Hypnotic suggestion acted like a firewall

in Tom’s decoding processes (at the subconscious waveform

level) which prevented him from reading – decoding – his

daughter’s waveform energetic field. Unless he could

decode that into holographic reality he would not be able to

see her in the frequency range of his conscious five-sense

mind. If she wasn’t decoded by his brain into the

holographic realm of the conscious mind then she could not

impact on that reality and so get in the way of Tom seeing

the watch. Everyone else in the room could see her because

they had not been subjected to the hypnotic firewall (Figs 46

and 47). Human perceptions are being programmed 24/7 as

I will show – and what are we not seeing because of

collective firewalls similar to those that bemused Tom? Is it

really just random chance that humanity can see such a

ridiculously narrow band of frequency or visible light? I say

it’s not, for reasons I will be exploring. We even decode our

own bodies into apparent ‘physical’ existence in the same

way (Fig 48). It’s hysterical, really, given how we experience



the world to be so ‘solid’. Colour? Nope, that doesn’t exist

either until you decode it. Colours and shades of colour are

information fields of different frequencies which only

become the colours that we think we see when we observe

them – decode them – into that form (Fig 49). English

scientist Isaac Newton (1642-1726) rightly called the

rainbow frequency band of colours a ‘spectrum’ which is

Latin for apparition or phantom and the origin of the word

spectre. Black absorbs all light, so it’s black; white reflects

all light, so it’s white; and different colours absorb some

light frequencies and reflect others. What they reflect is



what we see as their colour when those reflected

frequencies are decoded into electrical information by the

sight senses, and into holographic perception in the brain.

F igure 4 8 : We are decoding (‘observing’) our own bodies from

waveform

information into a holographic state.

F igure 4 9 : Colours are frequencies of information that we decode

into the

colours that we think we see.

What ‘physical’?

Our reality is not physical, but holographic – illusory

‘physical’. I have been saying and writing for years and

years that the ‘world’ is a digital hologram and now more

scientists are coming to that conclusion – well, open-minded

ones, anyway. Most people will have seen the holograms

you can buy in the shops and those they put on money and

credit cards. They are flat images that appear to be three-

dimensional. Holographics has now reached a stage of

development in which 3D moving images of people can be

projected from one place to another (Fig 50). We have seen

television programmes presented by holographic people

after they have died and duets between living singers and

departed singers such as Elvis (Fig 51). Holographics is

mimicking the very holographic reality that we experience

as life. Holograms are a photographic record of light

reflecting from an object. We can only see objects when

light is reflected from them (although I say there is more to

know about that) and so when you are in a pitch-black room

you can’t see anything. Rich Terrile, director of the Centre

for Evolutionary Computation and Automated Design at

NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in late 2016 on the

Richie Allen radio show on Davidicke.com that the Universe is a digital hologram and, as such, had to have been created

by some form of intelligence. I have been saying this for so

long while being ridiculed by both the mainstream media

and much of the ‘alterative’. We live in the equivalent of a

computer simulation like the one portrayed in the Matrix

movies and I will be revealing at length the nature of both

the simulation and the ‘intelligence’ that created it. I use the

term ‘computer’, but what controls the simulation is far

beyond anything we would perceive as a computer.

Holograms that we buy or see in the various media are

created by using a laser beam and mirrors (Fig 52 overleaf).

One half of the laser is deflected onto the object and then

on to a photographic plate while the other half bypasses the

object to directly strike the same photographic plate. When

the two beams collide the subsequent pattern represents an

image of the object in, wait for it ... waveform (Fig 53

overleaf). The pattern appears to be just a random series of

lines that look a bit like a human fingerprint and this is

known as an ‘interference pattern’. The principle is the

same as two stones dropped in a pond. Waves move out

and collide to produce a wave pattern in the water that

reflects the size and weight of the stones, where they

dropped, how quickly and how far apart. When a laser or

light of a single wavelength (‘coherent light’) is directed at

the holographic waveform interference pattern something

apparently amazing happens as a 3D image of the object is

projected. Illuminating the waveform pattern ‘reconstructs’

the object’s waveform state and our ‘eyes’ perceive this as

the object itself as the brain decodes waveform information

into holographic reality just as it does with ‘real’ reality.

Replace the laser or coherent light on the waveform print

with human focus or ‘observation’ and you see the process

through which we decode the ‘2D’ waveform Cosmic

Internet into the holographic ‘3D’ world of experienced

reality. The best holograms can look as solid as you and me,

but that’s all illusion and you can wave your hand through





them (Figs 54 and 55). This is the basic foundation of why our reality

looks so physically real when it isn’t.

F igure 5 0 : The lady is a hologram.





F igure 5 1 : Holographic versions of people are becoming

commonplace today.

F igure 5 2 : Creating holograms.





F igure 5 3 : Hologram in waveform which the laser ‘reads’ (decodes)

into an

apparently 3D image.

F igure 5 4 : Holographic ‘solidity’ you could wave your hand through.



F igure 5 5 : Holograms mimic our experienced reality.

F igure 5 6 : Even mainstream science is now being forced to rethink

reality.

New Scientist, the UK mainstream science magazine, ran

a front page story in 2009 entitled ‘You are a hologram

projected from the edge of the Universe’ and Scientific

American magazine gave similar coverage to a story headed

‘Are you a hologram? (Quantum physics say the entire

Universe might be)’. See Figure 56. Another mainstream

media report in 2017 carried the headline: ‘The Universe

could be a “vast and complex hologram”, scientists say.’ The

report explained how researchers from the UK’s University

of Southampton, working with colleagues from Canada and

Italy, had found ‘substantial evidence’ that we are part of a

massive illusion akin to watching a 3D movie projected from

a 2D screen. The team, which detailed the findings in the

peer-reviewed scientific journal, Physical Review Letters,

said the research discovered irregularities in cosmic

microwave background otherwise known as the ‘afterglow’

of the Big Bang (which didn’t happen). Kostas Skenderis, a

professor of mathematical sciences at Southampton, said it

was similar to watching a 3D film in the cinema. The

difference was that we are able to touch objects and the

‘projection’ is experienced as ‘real’. We don’t touch objects,

but interact waveform to waveform and the 3D cinema

screen is our own decoding process. Where I differ from

even holographic reality orthodoxy is that I say the

‘holographic universe’ is not a construct that exists

externally to us, but only internally when waveform

information or the Cosmic Internet is decoded by Body-Mind

into holographic form. The Universe is not a hologram. The

Universe is waveform information. We decode that

information into what we experience – inside our minds not

outside – as holographic or ‘physical’ reality. What we see

on a computer screen comes from decoding processes

inside the computer, not outside. A research team from

universities across Japan has developed holograms that you

can appear to touch and technology like Microsoft’s

HoloLens uses headsets to combine ‘normal’ reality with

holographic inserts that includes real size digital people.

They are actually inserting technological holograms into a

biological holographic reality. Professor Skenderis said that

while we perceive the pictures as having height, width and

depth they do in fact come from a flat screen. He said that

holographic reality is a huge leap forward in the way we

think about the structure and creation of the Universe and

could finally combine Einstein’s theory of gravity and

quantum theory – something scientists had been working for

decades to do. Researchers at Ibaraki University in Japan

say they have found ‘compelling evidence’ that the

Universe is a holographic projection. I have been making



these points in my books and talks for one and a half

decades at the time of writing. You don’t need a scientific

mind to understand reality, you need an open one. I repeat

that a scientific mind can be a block on understanding

because of its worship of orthodoxy and obsession with

examining only dots and so not seeing pictures. A unique

characteristic of holograms is that every part of a hologram

is a smaller version of the whole and this explains so many

apparent ‘mysteries’. If you cut a holographic print into

pieces each of them will produce a smaller version of the

whole picture, not just a part or fragment (Fig 57).The

smaller you go the less clarity you will have, but it is still the

entire image. Alternative healing techniques such as

acupuncture and reflexology can find points and areas all

over the body which represent all the organs and the body

as a whole. This has to be the case because the body is a

hologram and in my experience even most practitioners of

these methods don’t realise this. Skilled palm readers can

see so much information in the hand for the same reason.

The hand is a smaller version of the whole because the body

as we experience it is a hologram. Mainstream scientists like

Professor Richard Dawkins dismiss and ridicule alternative

anything because they don’t know what the body is let

alone how it works.

F igure 5 7 : Every part of a hologram is a smaller version of the

whole.

Digital holograms = experienced reality

Everything is connected and a reflection of everything else.

This is the consistent message of aware people throughout

the ages. Leonardo da Vinci said: ‘Learn how to see. Realise

that everything connects to everything else.’ Roman

philosopher Cicero said: ‘Everything is alive. Everything is

interconnected.’ This is certainly true of the waveform-

digital-holographic connection. Decoding waveform reality

into holographic ‘physical’ illusion goes through many

instantaneous stages – waveform particle atomic electrical

digital / holographic. All represent the same information in

different forms and atoms don’t need to be ‘solid’ to create

a physical world because there is no physical world. Atoms

are only a phase in the decoding process that turns

waveform information into holographic information in the

same way that computers decode different encoded

information states from disks, data sticks or the Internet into

what we see on the screen. Holographic reality is digital

holographic reality. Numbers are digital expressions of

waveform information/frequency states and this is the level

of reality that is decoded by the ancient art of numerology.

Some people read waveform reality – mediums, psychics

and so on – while numerology reads digital reality; but they

are reading different versions of the same reality and same

information. I have had psychic and numerological readings

with different people that were almost exactly the same for



this reason. Computer-generated digital holograms have

now been developed which are no longer created with

analogue photographic media but produced through

computers which calculate the object’s interference pattern

(waveform construct). A digital hologram is described here

in a mainstream media report: And they look real – so real

that when Ford used a [digital] hologram to show off a car

concept model people stopped, afraid to walk into it. They

thought the holographic car was really there.

Digital holograms are basically the reality that we

experience as the world. The brain-body decodes waveform

information into electrical and digital-holographic and so at

one level of reality everything appears as numbers and

related codes. Max Tegmark, physicist at the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology (MIT) and author of Our

Mathematical Universe, said: ‘The Universe can be entirely

described by numbers and maths.’ I will go into all this far

more when I expose the detailed background to our

simulated reality. It’s enough to say for now that this is why

NASA scientist Rich Terrile refers to the Universe as a digital

hologram and why there was so much emphasis in the

Matrix movie trilogy on digital reality (Fig 58 overleaf).

F igure 5 8 : Digital reality in The Matrix.

No time, no space

Nothing defines the parameters of our experienced ‘world’

more obviously than time and space. Our very lives are

defined by the passage of time as we go through the ageing

process (computer cycle). Is that the time? The time has

come. I am out of time. Every ‘day’ human life is defined,

dictated and limited by time. What a revelation, therefore,

to know that time does not exist except as a decoded

concept in the human mind. The illusion of time is created

by the way the brain constructs its decoded images in a

form where one seems to lead to the other. This can be

likened to still frames passing through a projector to give

the illusion of movement. Our brains take 40 sensations or

snapshots a second out of some 11 million to construct our

experienced reality and arranging information into a

sequence would be a breeze by comparison. Yet again the

prime influence in this construction of illusory time is

perception and we experience ‘time’ in accordance with our

mental and emotional state. ‘Time’ is relative to the

observer, the decoder, and his or her perceptions. Albert

Einstein said when explaining his theory of relativity: ‘When

you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second.

When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an

hour – that’s relativity.’ Werner Karl Heisenberg (1901-

1976), a renowned German theoretical physicist and pioneer

of quantum mechanics, said that ‘a path comes into

existence only when you observe it’ (decode it). Some brain

malfunctions mean that people see only still frames. They

won’t see tea pouring from the pot, but only as a freeze-

frame because even movement is a brain construct from

waveform/electrical information. Others see a car in the

distance and then nothing in between until it suddenly

appears in front of them. There is no time only the NOW,

one infinite ‘moment’ in which all exists. Concepts of past

and future are just that – concepts. Where are you when you

think of the past? In the NOW. Where are you when you

think of the future? In the NOW. There is only the NOW and

we experience both past and future only in the NOW. We

have to because that’s all there is. What we experience as

the passage of past through present to future are all

changing perceptions and constructs within the same NOW.

Consequently there is no such thing as time travel only

illusory ‘journeys’ of perception within the same NOW. A

DVD is encoded with the entire movie in the same NOW, but

we experience the changing scenes as the progression of

time. What we have watched is the past and what we have

yet to watch is the future. But every scene as they play

through is on the same disk in the same NOW. Someone

watching an earlier scene in the movie will be in your past

symbolically, but they are watching that in the same NOW in

which you watch the later scene (Fig 59). Another DVD

analogy is that the information on the disk requires

technology to decode the information to appear as pictures

and sound on the screen. This is what the brain/mind is

doing with the quantum computer waveform Universe.

Scientific experiments at the quantum level have shown

that the ‘past’ can be changed and influenced by the

present. This seems extraordinary until you realise that

what we perceive as past, present and future are all

happening in the same NOW and what appears to be the

present affecting the past is really the NOW affecting the

NOW. Day and night are changes happening in the NOW

when they appear in decoded form to be happening in a

sequence that we call day and night. This is another

collective illusion encoded into the construct of the Cosmic

Internet. The calendar of ‘time’ is a manipulated creation of

the Roman Church and clocks are created by humans and



not by nonexistent time. This is the clock-time illusion:

F igure 5 9 : The whole movie, past, present and future, in the same

NOW.

Time doesn’t exist, clocks exist. Time is just an agreed

upon construct. We have taken distance (one rotation of

the Sun), divided it into segments, then given those

segments labels. While it has its uses, we have been

programmed to live our lives by this construct as if it were

real. We have confused our shared construct with

something that is tangible and thus have become its

slave.

This is all planned as we shall see. The craziness of

manufactured ‘time’ means that today and yesterday are

divided by an invisible line that we call the International

Date Line (Fig 60). Parts of it are not even straight. Research

at University College in London revealed that top sportsmen

and women, including tennis players and baseball batters,

transform their experience of speed (time) when they are in

a focused state waiting for a serve or a pitch. They process

visual information quicker and so time to them appears to

pass slower than to those sitting in the stands. How did he

hit that ball? How did she reach that serve? They do it by

unconsciously slowing down ‘time’ and changing the way

they sequence reality. People say of great footballers that

they seem to have more ‘time’ than everyone else and this

is why. Onlookers perceive ‘time’ passing in accordance with

their own decoding process, but in the mind of the player

events are passing slower. This concept was portrayed in

the Matrix movies as people dodging bullets (Fig 61). I had

an experience as a goalkeeper in one match when time

slowed down to almost nothing. I had no idea what had

happened until years later when I began to grasp the nature

of reality. A player smacked a shot with great power and I

should have had no chance of stopping it as it sped for the

top left-hand corner; but as he struck the ball everything for

me transformed into serious slow-motion. I can still see the

ball moving in slow motion high towards my left hand side

as I moved across to get in line. I then launched myself –

still in slow motion – and managed to turn the ball over from

where the post meets the crossbar. This slow-mo was

accompanied by silence until my hand touched the ball and

then everything crashed back into normal speed and noise.

It was the best save I ever made and I lay on the floor

thinking ‘What just happened?’ Is this another unexplainable

mystery? No – the experience was my mind decoding reality

differently, that’s all. Sports people talk about their top

performances happening when they are ‘in the zone’ and

they describe this as a perceptual state in which everything

is silent and often happening in slow motion. Here you have

‘the zone’ explained. Focus (‘observation’) collapses

waveform reality into particle/holographic reality and the

extreme focus which often happens in sport adds a different

dimension to that decoding process. Those experiencing a

car crash and other traumatic events say that everything

seemed to happen in slow motion. It would be more

accurate to say that the extreme focus triggered by the

trauma made their mind decode information quicker and so

create the experience of time slowing down. ‘Time’ slows

near the speed of light because perceptions of the observer

change. The speed of light is not really a ‘speed’ at all. It is

a perception program encoded in the collective human

mind. Light ‘speed’ is not ‘out there’ – it is ‘in here’. The

mystery of how two so-called ‘entangled’ particles ‘billions

of miles’ apart can react to each other instantly can also be

explained. This is not the result of the speed of

communication across distance, but the fact that the

particles only exist in the observer’s decoding processes.

They are not ‘billions of miles’ apart, but within a few cubic

centimetres of the brain where visual reality is decoded. The

particles are also decoded expressions of the same

waveform field which reacts as one unit and not as two

distinct particles no matter what illusory distance is

perceived to exist between them. Now, here’s something

that will be very significant as we proceed. If you travelled

at the speed of light you would be everywhere in the

Universe in the same moment or NOW. This is what near-

death experiencers describe when their awareness

withdraws from the perception lens of the body. The speed

of light is really the inability of Body-Mind to decode reality

faster than the speed of light. There is a blocking

mechanism in the decoding process designed to keep us in

a perception prison for reasons that will soon become clear.

In that single sentence is a colossal revelation about the

human plight.





F igure 6 0 : An invisible line in the ocean takes you to yesterday or

tomorrow.

F igure 6 1 : Illusory time as Neo dodges bullets in The Matrix.

F igure 6 2 : The great universal panorama only exists in the form that

we ‘see’

in a small area at the back of the brain..

There is no space in the same way that there is no time.

Look at the night sky and all those stars and planets across

the vastness of space and apparent distance. Once again all

that you see in the form that you see only exists in those

few cubic centimetres at the back of the brain where visual

reality is decoded and constructed (Fig 62). A computer

game appears to have time as scenes change and also

space in terms of depth and perspective, and yet all you are

observing are computer codes on a disk or data stick being

decoded into images on the screen. The ‘ayahuasca Voice’

said: ‘Why do you fly from point A to point B when you are

point A and point B and everything in between?’ ‘Space’, as

with ‘time’, is part of the illusory construct that the mind

uses to define holographic reality. In the act of manifesting

apparent objects from the waveform field the illusion of

space naturally appears to be real. Remember that what we

call space is not a ‘thing’, but is instead defined only by

holographic images in our minds. In a room full of objects

(images) we say there is not much space while on the Great

Plains of the American Midwest where ‘objects’ appear far

apart we talk of ‘wide open spaces’. Space as an entity in

and of itself is an illusion of the holographic decoding

process and is defined not by itself, but by the perceived

distance between holographic forms. How can space and

distance be real when changing conditions such as speed

can change the apparent distance and thus ‘space’? Alcohol

and drugs can change spatial awareness because of their

effect on the perceptual decoding process. As the near-

death experiencer said of out-of-body reality: ‘... There is no

time, there is no sequence of events, no such thing as

limitation, of distance, of period, of place. I could be

anywhere I wanted to be simultaneously.’

The scalar connection

There is an overall field that encompasses the entirety of

our reality and operates beyond what we perceive as time

and space and the speed of light. I will call it the scalar field.

The term ‘scalar’ is highly controversial among scientists

and those who challenge their orthodoxy, and I have read

several different explanations and definitions. I am using the

name scalar in the context of this book to describe a field

from which the realms of waveform and holographic reality

ultimately manifest. What I am calling the quantum field of

possibility and probability is an expression ultimately of this

scalar field which in my definition interpenetrates

everything. It is similar in theme, though not detail, with the

mainstream scientific concept of ‘dark matter/energy’ or

unseen matter/energy that is claimed to comprise the great

majority of the Universe. You will see references to scalar

waves but they are really a scalar field because of the

nature of scalar energy. Whatever you infuse into the scalar

field is immediately everywhere in that field and so affecting

everything connected to the field – which is everything in

our reality. The scalar field in my definition is everywhere at

the same ‘time’ because it is beyond time. The

instantaneous mass-absorption of information puts the



scalar field way beyond the speed of light. I have seen

scalar energy described as something that is ‘just a quantity

without direction or coordinates’. But you do not require

direction or coordinates when you are everywhere. Nikola

Tesla who gave us the fundamentals of modern electrical

supply systems was well aware of the scalar phenomenon

and I will come back to this.

F igure 6 3 : Doctors are misled their entire careers about the true

nature of the

body and how it works.

Medical madness

Something to ponder: We have virtually an entire global

medical profession treating the body and its malfunctions

while having no idea what the body or reality really is.

Mmmm ... I wonder why mainstream medicine is one of

Planet Earth’s biggest killers. It’s like asking me to mend

your car engine. It would never work again. The difference is

that I wouldn’t dream of messing with an engine I know

nothing about, while doctors mess with human bodies every

day that they misunderstand in their foundation form

because medical science has misled them their entire

careers (Fig 63). Why they are misled is coming later on. I

am not saying that doctors don’t do good work that benefits

people, but talking in totality how can you not create

mayhem overall if you are treating something that you don’t

understand? Mainstream medicine doesn’t accept that the

body is a waveform information construct and sees only the

illusory physical from its perceptual prison of the five

senses. The holographic level of the body is a decoded

projection of waveform information and always reflects that

informational state. The balance or imbalance of the

waveform field reflects as the balance or imbalance

(disease) of the hologram. What’s more the balance or

imbalance of the perceiver also affects which possibilities

and probabilities are decoded into holographic experience,

including the health or otherwise of their bodies.

Imbalanced emotion is the biggest cause of human disease

(disease) and emotional imbalance = energetic imbalance =

decoding imbalance = holographic imbalance. Waveform

distortions become holographic distortions and it cannot be

any other way because one is a projection of the other. Even

mainstream medicine acknowledges the reality of

psychosomatic illness, and evidence for mental and

emotional states manifesting as ‘physical’ ailments is now

enormous. This is how that happens. Imbalanced thought

and emotion generates imbalanced electrical and waveform

frequencies that distort the electrical/waveform fields of the

body which then project into the hologram. In the same way

balanced and positively focused thoughts and emotion can

rebalance distortions in the electrical/waveform fields. I was

told when I was 19 that my own arthritis would probably put

me in a wheelchair in my 30s. Forty-six years later at aged

65 I am talking on my feet for ten hours at a time and

waking up fine the next morning. Why no wheelchair?

Because I wasn’t having it, that’s why, as I told the

wheelchair predictors at the ‘time’. Mind governs ‘physical’

experience – and awareness beyond that even more so if we

allow it in. Perception decodes reality from the quantum

field of possibility and probability and in doing so dictates

health. Doctors give a prognosis or life expectancy and that

perception – if accepted by the patient – becomes a self-

fulfilling prophecy as perception is decoded into

experienced reality. Message to doctors – don’t tell people

what is going to happen to them or how long they have to

live. Let them decide that – not you. Mainstream medicine

sees only the hologram or what is perceived to be physical

and when your only tool is a hammer every problem looks

like a nail. More aware people note that so-called modern

medicine only treats the symptom and not the cause, but

how else could that be when you only accept the existence

of the five-sense body and not of the waveform field from

which it is holographically decoded? The cause is imbalance

in the waveform field (most often caused by imbalanced

emotion) and with the medical profession rejecting the

existence of the waveform level they cannot possibly treat

the cause. They are left with only the symptom and the way

waveform imbalance manifests in the hologram. You have a

pain? We’ll give you a painkiller. You have a cancer? We’ll

cut it out or destroy your immune system for life with

chemotherapy (what one doctor called weed killer) and

radiation which causes cancer. Studies have revealed that

chemotherapy also causes cancer and allows it to grow

more aggressively because of its effect on body systems.

Mainstream ‘modern’ medicine is a killing machine and

could not fail to be so for the reasons outlined here. Where

does ‘physical’ health come into anything when you

consider this quote from earlier – ‘If we lost all the dead

space inside our atoms we would each be able to fit into a

particle of dust and the entire human race would fit into the

volume of a sugar cube.’ My own view as I said before is

that we are not even a particle of dust because ‘matter’ is

100 percent illusion. So where do ‘physical’ ailments like

arthritis come from? They are not physical because there is

no physical – they are schisms in the energetic

waveform/electromagnetic field and must be healed at that

level.

Killing

the

competition

Alternative

or

complimentary medicine overwhelmingly targets the

waveform level of energetic information with the

understanding (among the best practitioners I should stress)

that if the waveform field is in balance the ‘physical’ body

must be so. They seek to help the body heal itself. These are

the same alternative healers that are now being mercilessly

targeted with fierce regulation and intimidation by tyrannies

including national governments, the European Union and a

global scam called Codex Alimentarius (created by Nazis

jailed for war crimes) which are all working in the interests

of the Big Pharma pharmaceutical cartel to destroy the

complimentary competition. Codex Alimentarius or ‘Food

Code’/’Food Book’ seeks to use the excuse of harmonising

global regulation to take genuine complimentary treatments

out of circulation and give control over useless synthetic

copies to Big Pharma. My long-time friend Mike Lambert at

the Shen Clinic on the Isle of Wight is a healing genius who

knows what the body really is, but that makes him a target

for the authorities when they should be giving him every

encouragement and helping him share his knowledge.

Complimentary practitioners are being closed down and

even jailed for making any claims about what they do even

though the evidence to support what they say can be

produced. Mainstream laboratory findings cannot be quoted

by alternative medicine in support of their work or

prosecution could follow. We have the ludicrous and

outrageous situation in places like the EU in which nutrition,

food supplements and other products can still be produced

(though give them ‘time’), but not a word can be said about

their potential beneficial effect while Big Pharma can make

claims galore that turn out to be mendacious and

sometimes deadly. This is where we are in this war against

what I will call waveform field practitioners: ‘This might be

good for you.’

‘Why?’

‘I can’t tell you.’

Meanwhile, ‘Big Pharma’ can by comparison claim pretty

much what it likes about its symptom-obsessed potions that

mostly do no good at all or cause more and often worse

problems than those they are claiming to treat. It is pathetic

to hear breathless voiceovers racing through a long list of

‘side-effects’ at the end of drug advertisements on

American television. Some have even taken to putting

pictures over the voice to divert viewers’ attention from

what is being said. They care about your health all right.

Drug companies have to massively overstep the mark

before they risk prosecution and even then most of the fines

are derisory against the staggering size of their annual

profits. The reason for this extraordinary level of bias

against waveform field practitioners in favour of hologram

obsessives will become obvious and it is not only about

money – far from it. They want to destroy all alternatives to

Big Pharma as part of a global agenda of human control and

oppression. Governments, global bodies and Big Pharma

have long been targeting alternative methods and

practitioners in a coordinated conspiracy which I have

exposed in other books. The idea is to delete all other health

care and leave humanity at the mercy of these

pharmaceutical psychopaths who have been exposed for

shocking practises that include reducing drug supplies to

drive up the price by thousands of percent (Fig 64). The

global campaign against alternative ways of healing are

made easier by the astonishing amounts of money spent in

political campaign funding and lobbying by the Big Pharma

cartel. Donald Trump’s health policy replacement for

Obamacare in the United States was drafted by people

given hundreds of thousands of dollars by the

pharmaceutical industry. Another point to make here is that

Big Pharma poisons and potions are damaging and

imbalancing the body’s waveform field even while its

existence is publicly rejected. I say publicly because deep in

the shadows they know how it all works and therefore the

havoc they wreak. If you could see pharmaceutical drugs on

their waveform level you would see distorted and chaotic

fields of frequency and vibration that interact with the

waveform fields of the body and pass on that distortion and

energetic chaos. We call this ‘side-effects’ when the

distortions play through to the hologram. Swallowing poison

does not directly kill the body – the waveform level of the

body becomes so distorted and inverted that it ceases to

function as an energetic organism. What happens in the

hologram when poison is swallowed is only a reflection of

what is happening in the waveform field. This principle

further applies to both the mass toxicity in the environment

and chemical-infested (vibrationally-distorted) shit in

vaccines and what is bravely called food. We may see black

toxic sludge pouring into a river, but on the waveform level



that sludge is a distorted and chaotic field of information

which impacts on the waveform field of the river and the

same distortion is passed on to the fish and other river life.

Radiation is so dangerous and deadly because it distorts the

waveform field of the body, and today’s human society is

deluged with it. The global health crisis can only ever be

made worse by a mainstream medicine that has no idea

what it is actually ‘treating’. A system so utterly insane can

only spew out ever greater numbers of ill (energetically-

imbalanced) people. The only answer – and those behind all

this don’t want an answer – is for waveform field

practitioners and researchers to be set free from their witch

hunt and allowed to address illness in ways that will (a)

genuinely heal people and (b) stop them getting ill in the

first place.

F igure 6 4 : Global organised crime syndicate.

Waveform water Professor Dame Sally Davies, UK

Government Chief Medical Officer, said: ‘Homeopaths are

peddlers and homeopathy is rubbish.’ Homeopathy is a

perfect example of mainstream medicine’s arrogance of

ignorance. The programmed thought-processes of people

like Davies follow this ever-recurring pattern: ‘If we can’t

explain it then it can’t be happening.’ This mentality

pervades Mainstream Everything and those with perceptions

downloaded from Mainstream Everything. Much of the

alternative media is infected with the same myopia. How

can people like Sally Davies understand the basis on which

homeopathy works when they don’t understand or accept

how reality works? This is the chicken and egg bind that

holds such people in their life-long addiction to ignorance.

The foundation of their disbelief in homeopathy is that its

potions are so diluted that there are no ingredients

remaining in the water. Note: ‘ingredients’ = what I can see.

If they can’t see something it cannot exist. A mainstream UK

newspaper reported that 2,500 ‘vets and animal lovers’ had

called for a ban on the use of homeopathy on animals. They

said it was dangerous compared with ‘proven medicines’,

you know the ones produced by the Big Pharma cartel that

contribute to the incredible annual death toll of mainstream

‘medicine’. The key line in the article said: ‘... scientists

argue that the cures are so diluted they are unlikely to

contain any of the original substance.’ I’ll explain why that

doesn’t matter. Researchers at the Aerospace Institute in

Stuttgart, Germany, have developed a way to photograph

information in droplets of water. They dipped a flower into a

tank of water and took it out again before photographing

the droplets. They found that the energetic information from

the flower was in all of the droplets – the holographic

principle again. The information of the flower was retained

in the water even when the flower (‘substance’) had been

removed, and the same happens with homeopathy.

Energetic information of the substance stays in the water

after the substance itself has been diluted away and it is

this which interacts with the body at the level of the

waveform field. I am not saying that homeopathy is

effective every time or even at all in the wrong hands, but

this is the principle on which it can work and often does. Dr

Vladimir Poponin, a Russian researcher, beamed a laser

through DNA and when the ‘physical’ DNA was removed it

remained in the laser in energetic form under the same

principle as the flower and the water. This is known as the

‘Phantom DNA Effect’ but it is not a phantom. It is DNA in

waveform. Stuttgart researchers also invited people from

the local community for an experiment in which they were

each asked to take four droplets from a tank of water and

put them in a dish with their name on. When these drops

were photographed each set of four were different from the

other sets, but each of the four from each person were

virtually identical in their energetic signature (Fig 65). The

simple and brief act of taking a droplet from the tank and

putting it in a dish had transferred the person’s unique

energetic signature to the water. This is how we are

interacting with our energetic environment and each other

second after illusory second at the waveform level of the

Cosmic Internet as we ‘download’ and ‘post’ information.

The principle was compellingly confirmed by the work of a

friend of mine, the late Japanese researcher, Dr Masaru

Emoto. He perfected a way of photographing the impact of

frequency and vibration on water crystals. Water is also a

waveform field in its base state as everything is in our

reality and so water is impacted by waveform influences. Dr

Emoto would write words of love or hate on the side of

canisters of water and then freeze them very quickly before

photographing the crystals. He would also sometimes use

polluted water, subject water to various kinds of music

(vibration/frequency) and attach a mobile phone to the

canister. The difference this made to the crystals was

stunning as you can see from the illustrated examples (Fig

66).Words of love and thanks written on the canisters

produced perfectly balanced and beautiful crystals while

words of hate created a distorted mess. How come?

Everything in its base state – even written words – is

waveform energy (information). The spoken word is

obviously a vibrational phenomenon produced by the vocal

chords which the brain decodes into language. The written

word operates on the same principle. We may see words as

ink on paper in the hologram, but their foundation state is

waveform information and the intent behind them dictates

their frequency state whether high or low, balanced or

distorted. Saying ‘I hate you’ with a joke and a smile does

not generate the same frequency as saying the same with

intent and venom. Words written on the side of the water

canister transfer their vibrational state to the waveform

level of the water and this changes the nature of the water

crystals. Polluted water seriously distorts the crystals for

reasons I explained earlier and the same with mobile

phones. Polluted water can be transformed into balance by

what is termed ‘prayer’, which is concentrated and focused

thought (Fig 67). Attention and intent generate frequency

fields that change the waveform structure of the water and

a positive focus and intent based on love, appreciation and

respect can rebalance everything. We are constantly being

impacted by our energetic environment – and impacting

upon it – while the overwhelming majority have no idea this

is so. Voice to ear communication, while it appears to

dominate human interaction, is really only a holographic

sideshow. Consciousness and its waveform vehicle is the

stadium in which life plays out. By the way, ‘prayer’ can (not

necessarily will but can) focus attention or perception on the

quantum field of possibility and probability and manifest an

experienced reality that appears to be your ‘prayers being

answered’. They are not answered by some deity in the sky,

but your own reality-decoding potential from the infinite well

of infinite possibility.



F igure 6 5 : Information in the four droplets from each person was

virtually the

same.





F igure 6 6 : Different frequency/vibration from intent, emotion,

thought and

pollution expressed in the water crystals.

F igure 6 7 : ‘Prayer’ or focused thought and intent can change the

energetic state of water crystals.

Paranormal

Human society is an inversion wherever you look because

its perceptions are driven by manufactured ignorance and,

in terms of those in the shadows, by extremely evil intent.

The inversion of normal and paranormal is a great example.

Normal is only what we normally experience and nothing

more. If we fall for the trap of believing in Mainstream

Everything’s programmed myopia then normal will be a tiny

band of possibility; but if you breach the walls of such

downloaded deception you realise that what is called

‘paranormal’ is the real normal and the way things really

are. Human ‘normal’ is nothing more than a mind prison of

programmed perceptions. ‘Normal’ laughs at those who say

they have seen aliens or spaceships, as if the only

‘intelligent’ life in the infinity of forever are human beings

living on a planet which when compared with the projected

size of the Universe is the equivalent of a billionth of a

pinhead (Fig 68). ‘Normal’ laughs at those who claim to

have seen ‘ghosts’ even though this is a constantly common

theme throughout human existence all over the world. I said

earlier that ghosts or apparitions are expressions of

awareness in other frequency bands close to ours (Fig 69).

They mostly appear ethereal because they are not on our

frequency and they are the visual version of interference by

one radio station on another. The main station (our reality)

is the dominant one and the interference station (the ghost)

is more distant and fuzzy because it is not on the frequency

of the main station. ‘Normal’ dismisses the arts of divination

such as tarot cards and rune stones because ‘normal’ does

not understand how they can work and so, by definition,

they can’t, eh, Dame Sally? We are a waveform field and

tarot cards are a waveform field. Images and symbolism of

each

tarot

card

or

rune

stone

dictates

its

frequency/vibrational state and this is a visual version of

intent that comes from what cards or stones represent.

Interaction during a tarot card reading or when the runes

are thrown is happening at the electromagnetic waveform

level of reality (Fig 70). We pick one card and not another

because of the electromagnetic synchronisation and

attraction between the card’s field and our own. What the

card

symbolically

represents

and

is

expressed

electromagnetically makes a connection with a similar

frequency within our own electromagnetic field which in turn

represents something in our mental and emotional state. A

spread of cards on the table is a visual representation of the

probabilities and possibilities poised to be manifested by our

energetic field and awareness through our mental and

emotional state of perception. Gifted people in this arena

can read what they believe might happen from the quantum

possibilities and probabilities set before them in the form of

cards or rune stones. I emphasise the term gifted. In all

these so-called paranormal arts there are outstanding

people and fakes who try to persuade others to believe

them. Personal recommendations from previous clients are

a good way to avoid frauds. ‘Normal’ laughs at psychics and

mediums who say they can connect with awareness in other

realities. They can be a stage show psychic at the level of ‘Is

there a Mary? I’m getting a Mary’; or they can be those

relatively few who can connect with realities and expanded

awareness way beyond our frequency band. The question is

not whether this is possible – it is – but rather can this or

that person actually do it. Those that can are expanding

their frequency range to attune with other realities and

awareness which can then communicate through them into

our realm (Fig 71). A psychic/medium acts as a conduit



between two frequency bands to allow one to communicate

with the other. This is what Betty Shine was doing and

where the ‘voice’ or thought forms that I heard in the

newspaper shop and on the hill in Peru came from.

Awareness they attune with can be anything from Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself to some very dark, dense

and manipulative entities in frequency bands close to this

one. These are the entities that Satanists interact with in

their sick and manipulative rituals. The paranormal/normal

inversion is a potent example of the collective inversion

which is human society. Paranormal represents the true

nature of reality while normal is a manufactured figment of

programmed imagination or rather lack of it. Those with an

understanding of the pararealnormal have always been at

best ridiculed and at worst burned at the stake while

advocates of the idiocy-normal are feted as great minds and

given titles and status. The consequences of this have been

catastrophic.

F igure 6 8 : ‘A little perspective.



F igure 6 9 : ‘Ghosts’ are entities and other energetic states operating

on

frequencies close enough to ours to be seen if only ethereally.





F igure 7 0 : Tarot cards are electromagnetic (information) states

connecting with

similar states in the human energy field.

F igure 7 1 : Psychics and mediums (genuine ones) are expanding

their

perception range to connect with other frequencies or dimensions of

reality.

© www.neilhague.com

Body Alcatraz

From this explanation of reality comes so much to be joyous

about in the sense that we are Infinite Awareness in an

eternal (actually timeless) state of being aware and we

explore infinite experience and possibility forever and the

proverbial day. On the other hand, in terms of our current

predicament, the same nature of reality allows for

something that is rather less joyous and pleasant. This is

the manipulation of perception and turning the body into a

perceptual prison cell. I will explain in detail how this

enslavement is induced and policed throughout our lives,

but the overall outcome I can deal with now as this opening

chapter comes to a close. The perception conspiracy is all

about hijacking and controlling our focus of attention and

locking away human perception and belief in the realm of

the five senses (Figs 72 and 73). We are awareness that should perceive multiple realities in the same NOW which is

why near-death experiencers describe just such a

perceptual state when they have withdrawn from the body-

prison which focuses attention within visible light. The body

on all levels from waveform to hologram has been

specifically created or tinkered with to focus human

attention in that tiny band of frequency and impose a sense

of reality dominated by the five senses. Scientists, doctors,

politicians and ‘journalists’ are all under the same

perceptual lock and key as the general population and often

more so. The entire System, not least ‘education’, is

specifically structured to maintain this delusional status quo

in which sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell are the

arbiters of everything. Those that see beyond the illusion

are called mad, bad or dangerous with five-sense religion

leading the way before ‘science’ joined its ranks at the front

line. It is a head-shaker to watch people like Professor

Richard Dawkins and his mindset condemning religion while



acting in exactly the same way in their own religion of

‘Scientism’. Both versions of religion have an immovable

belief system that repels all borders with an unquestioning

certainty that if anyone else says something different they

must be wrong with no further inquiry or research

necessary. To Professor Dawkins no one can be ‘sane’ or

‘well educated’ unless they agree with him. Meanwhile,

shamans like this one in Central America blow the

academics away with their understanding of reality:

F igure 7 2 : Limit and control perception and you limit and control

reality.





F igure 7 3 : Freedom is opening the mind to expanded awareness

and multiple

realities where the human condition can be seen in a very different

light.

F igure 7 4 : ‘I’m closed minded? Who me? Never.’

We are perceivers, we are awareness; we are not objects;

we have no solidity. We are boundless ... We, or rather our

reason, forget this and thus we entrap the totality of

ourselves in a vicious circle from which we rarely emerge

in our lifetime.

This ‘reason’ and ‘vicious circle’ are generated and

exploited to impose a perceptional entrapment which also

ensnares those like Professor Dawkins to whom people look

for scientific enlightenment (Fig 74). The ‘scientific’ and

‘normal’ definitions of ‘reason, rational and logical’ are all

expressions of the same perceptual prison and these are

three words that pour forth from the mouths of the Dogma

Dawkins School of the scientifically blind and blinkered.

Dictionary definitions take us in a circle back to the start or

another symbolic circling of the wagons to keep out

expanded awareness. Reason is defined as ‘to determine or

conclude by logical thinking’. Logic is ‘a system of

reasoning’ and rational is ‘based on or agreeable to reason’.

‘Mum, I’m back!’ All roads lead to reason which is also

described as ‘a normal mental state or sanity’. Reason, the

word used to determine sanity, turns out to be nothing more

than a programmed perception imposing its kindergarten

version of normal. Blaise Pascal, the 17th century French

philosopher and mathematician, said: ‘The end point to

rationality is to demonstrate the limits of rationality.’ Well, it

is to those who are conscious beyond the programming.

There must be an end point because rationality as perceived

by Mainstream Everything is the concept of a closed mind,

not an open one. A closed mind is another standing or

stationary wave jogging on the spot and oscillating only in

the realm of the perceived known with no desire to move on

and explore the infinite realms of the unknown – unknown at

least to humanity (Fig 75). When I observe the Dogma

Dawkins mentality I see a standing wave oscillating with its

certainties while unwilling to move beyond them. I also see

fear in their eyes – the fear of being wrong. Maybe that’s the



real reason they stay where they are and attack those who

don’t.

F igure 7 5 : A closed mind is a standing wave jogging on the spot

buying the lie

and going nowhere.

© www.neilhague.com

So who or what would want to put the human race in a





perceptual trance and lock us away in the five senses ... and

why? To that, we shall now turn.

‘Nothing would be what it is because everything would be

what it isn’t. And contrary-wise; what it is it wouldn’t be, and

what it wouldn’t be, it would. You see?’ – A lice in

Wonderland

Our reality is one gigantic inversion and there is no better

example than mainstream religion. You know that ‘loving

god’ they talk about who ‘created the world’? Well ...

The Bible is an amalgamation of ancient writings and texts

that have been seriously manipulated and distorted to often

present the opposite of what was originally written. The Old

Testament which either dominates or influences the beliefs

of Judaism, Christianity, Islam and their many offshoots is a

blatant inversion. All three believe in the Old Testament

character of Abraham and are known as Abrahamic

religions. Similar inversions of ‘God created the world’ can

be found in other faiths and you have to consult the writings

and beliefs on which they are based to appreciate how

corrupted are the very foundations of major religions. I am

going to explore some of those pre-biblical, pre-koranic texts

in this chapter, put them in a modern context and show

their connection to humanity’s current plight.

I consciously began my quest to understand the world and

reality in 1990. I can see now that my whole life before this

had been leading me to the point where I became aware of

the patterns of ‘coincidence’ driving the twists, turns and

directions I had experienced since childhood. I have been

led for decades by awareness in the unseen to information

from people, documents, books and personal experience

that have handed me the puzzle pieces in an extraordinarily

coordinated way. The challenge was to go to depths of the

rabbit hole where no one had gone before in terms of the

scale and breadth of connected information across a vast

array of subjects and happenings. For this to be achieved in

a single human lifespan the information had to be presented

to me in at least a fairly A to B to C order or it would have all

been too chaotic, bewildering and overwhelming to

understand its implications and put it all together. The best

part of 30 years ago as I write these words I went to see the

psychic Betty Shine and a year later came my colossal initial

conscious awakening after the ‘download’ on the hill in Peru

and the historic levels of public ridicule that followed back

home in Britain. Information coming to me was largely about

the world of the seen in the early years. I realised that those

who appear to be in power in politics, corporations, banking,

media, science, medicine, religion etc., are only agents and

pawns – some knowingly, most unknowingly – of a force

operating from the shadows and pursuing an agenda of

global human control. George Orwell’s Nineteen-Eighty-Four

and Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World tapped into this

agenda which is why they have been so prophetic. Orwell,

real name Eric Blair, knew Huxley who taught him French at

the elite Eton College near Windsor Castle, west of London,

where royal children go. But there is enormously more to

know than even they suggested from their knowledge of

where humanity was planned to be taken. The flow of

information coming to me expanded from the mid-1990s

into the realms of nonhuman entities, particularly those

taking a reptilian form and the classic ‘Greys’ of ‘alien’

legend. Suddenly, as I travelled around the world, I was

‘coincidentally’ meeting people, one after the other, telling

me similar stories about their knowledge and direct

experience of nonhuman entities of many kinds with

Reptilians and Greys the most common. More mass ridicule

followed when I published The Biggest Secret and Children

of the Matrix exposing the nonhuman manipulation of

human affairs, but by then I didn’t give a shit. I am

interested in the truth, not a popularity contest. Stage three

of the information transfer began with my ayahuasca

experience in Brazil and has taken me deeply into the

illusory nature of ‘physical’ reality. Now the pieces all began

to fit in a way they could not before. As each new stage

unfolded they would run concurrently with the others and so

today I am dealing with information about all levels of what

is a fantastic rabbit hole of hidden deceit.

Using your nous – or going beyond it?

A few years ago, I came across a treasure trove of ancient

information found in a sealed jar in 1945 near the town of

Nag Hammadi about 75-80 miles north of Luxor on the

banks of the River Nile in Egypt (Fig 76). They are known as

the Nag Hammadi Library, texts or scriptures and thanks to

them other major pieces in the puzzle were revealed and

my already developing conclusions confirmed. The latter

point is very relevant. One writer who produced a good book

on the Nag Hammadi texts felt the need to dismiss my work

because at that time I was not including this information.

What he didn’t realise, however, amid his own obsession

with a single source, is that my work is being driven from

the unseen in a particular A to B to C sequence, and not

being aware of the content of these texts before I had

reached my own conclusions from a wide range of other

sources was vitally important. Had that not been the case

the texts could have become, as they are for some

researchers, the whole foundation of my belief system and

another one-stop-shop religion. The timing ensured that

they acted for me as another massive confirmation and

addition to what I had already concluded about the human

plight and control of our reality. The Nag Hammadi find

included 13 leather-bound papyrus codices (manuscripts)

and more than 50 texts written in Coptic Egyptian which

were the work – with other ancient influences – of a people

known as Gnostics. They were not a racial group so much as

a way of perceiving reality under the heading of Gnosticism.

This comes from the term gnosis or knowledge in the

context of spiritual knowledge and awareness of reality as it

really is. Gnosis is a Greek word that translates as secret

knowledge, and Gnostic means ‘learned’. We have the

saying in English about ‘using your nous’ or using your

head/brain/intelligence; but to Gnostics spiritual awakening

or ‘salvation’ could only be attained by expanding

awareness beyond what they called nous and into pneuma

(Infinite Self). Humanity’s version of the intellect on which



the whole crazy world is based is actually a shockingly low

level of awareness which is lauded and feted as the fountain

of knowledge. It’s more like a spout of ignorance. Gnostics

were active in many locations and were targeted mercilessly

by the Roman Church which felt severely threatened by the

way the foundation of its own belief system was being

turned on its head. What the Roman Church saw as its all-

powerful God to be worshipped without question the

Gnostics believed was the source of evil that created the

material world – in my terms the ‘material’ world of the

digital, holographic computer-like simulation that I will be

explaining in detail in the next chapter. Gnostics could see

through the illusion of ‘matter’ and I have no doubt they

were helped in that understanding by the use of

psychoactive potions that took them ‘out there’.

F igure 7 6 : The Nag Hammadi treasure trove of Gnostic information.

The Royal or Great Library of Alexandria in Egypt with its

amazing collection of ancient knowledge and history was

dominated by Gnostic thought (Fig 77). An estimated nearly

half a million scrolls, manuscripts and documents were

gathered from many locations including Assyria, Greece,

Persia and India, as well as Egypt. Those with more

expanded awareness were attracted to this oasis of open-

mindedness and among them was a woman called Hypatia

(about 350-415 AD). She was an Athens-educated

mathematician, astronomer and philosopher who taught the

work of Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle and was head

of the Platonist school at Alexandria (Fig 78). One of her

reported quotes confirms her openness of mind: ‘Reserve

your right to think, for even to think wrongly is better than

not to think at all.’ Many insights about reality were inspired

by such a haven of free-thought thousands of years before

‘science’ allegedly discovered them for the first time. This



included the understanding that the Earth goes round the

Sun 2,000 years before it was established by the Polish

mathematician and astronomer, Nicolaus Copernicus. How

so much more enlightened humanity would be had the

Gnostics and other open-minded scholars been left

unmolested to go about their quest for discovery. Alas, that

was not to be. The unfettered, uncensored, free-thinking

pursuit of knowledge was bound to twist the knickers of the

Roman Church tyranny and in 415 AD a mob of bewildered

suckers led by Cyril, Patriarch of Alexandria, attacked and

essentially destroyed the Royal Library as it had been

before. Hypatia was hacked to death. The Library’s contents

were lost in stages to a combination of fire and theft, and

much of what was taken will be in the vaults of the Vatican

to this day. Cyril was made a saint as with a long list of

Roman Church mass murderers and crooks before and

since. The attack that killed Hypatia fits with the estimated

age of the Nag Hammadi manuscripts. They are believed to

date from between 350-400 AD although it is said they are

likely to be copies of earlier Greek versions dating to

perhaps 120-150 AD or earlier. Centuries after the assault

on the Gnostics of Alexandria came the campaign against

the Gnostic Cathars in southern France which ended with

them being burned at the stake after the siege of the Castle

of Montsé gur in 1244.



F igure 7 7 : The Royal Library of Alexandria.

F igure 7 8 : Hypatia was hacked to death by a Catholic mob.

Gnostic information has always terrified the Church and

for good reason, as we are about to see. It was believed that

the details of Gnostic belief had been lost thanks to the

efforts of Rome, but then Nag Hammadi changed the game.

A major point about these documents is that because they

were hidden for so long they have not been twisted and

tampered with like their religious counterparts to suit the

authorities of the ‘time’. What the writers believed, the texts

still say.

The Gnostic All That Is

Nag Hammadi manuscripts reveal why the Church quivered

like a jelly at the Gnostic explanation of the world. I was

often amazed reading them to see how themes, foundations

and much detail synced with my own conclusions reached

before I had ever heard of them. They speak of the ‘Father’

(Infinite Awareness, All-Possibility, All-Potential) and make

the distinction between nous (mind) and pneuma (Infinite

Self). An untitled text in the Nag Hammadi Bruce Codex

says that ‘The All’ (all awareness, all that exists) is

contained within the ‘Father’:

He is an incomprehensible one, but it is he who

comprehends All. He receives them to himself. And

nothing exists outside of him. But All exist within him. And

he is boundary to them all, as he encloses them all, and

they are all within him. It is he who is Father of the aeons,

existing before them all. There is no place outside of him.

This is what I call the All That Is or Infinite Awareness in

awareness of itself – ‘the force that moves all things’ (Fig

79). The Infinite is not even a form of energy, but pure

awareness, a state of Isness. Energy comes from its

imagination. You can appreciate why Gnostics would use the

term Father to symbolise the concept for people, but now in

the era of quantum physics and computerisation we can use

modern analogies. Father symbolism was encompassed by

the Bible and Church and ‘he’ was transformed into a bloke

on a throne. The word ‘aeons’ would be considered today to

mean a long period of time, but to Gnostics aeons referred

to what we might call bands of perception, reality and

potential. Dictionaries define this meaning of aeon as ‘a

power existing from eternity; an emanation or phase of the

supreme deity’. Gnostic texts refer to the ‘Upper Aeons’ and

‘Lower Aeons’ in very different terms and they say that

between the two is a curtain, veil or boundary. Upper Aeons

are said to emanate directly from the unity of ‘The One’ – All

That Is in awareness of itself – and can be symbolised as

concentric circles expressing the Oneness of their Creator or



Emanater. There is no separation or sense of it. Upper Aeons

are described by Gnostics as ‘The Silence’, ‘the silent

Silence’, ‘the living Silence’, with its ‘Watery Light’ (Fig 80).

This is not the same as the light that we perceive in our

reality which is a trap that can be likened to energetic

flypaper; but that’s for later. Water is often used in the texts

to symbolise the Upper Aeon realm of Oneness as in ‘... the

waters which are above’, ‘... the waters which are above

matter’ and ‘... the Aeons in the Living Water’. Upper Aeons

are a reality (state of being) with no time or space. ‘Since

the emanations are limitless and immeasurable’, as one text

says, there can be no time or space. Upper Aeons are pure

consciousness or awareness. They are also called Pleroma

or ‘the totality’, ‘the fullness’ and the ‘perfection’ of

‘emanations of the Father’. The Nag Hammadi Gospel of

Truth says: ‘Therefore, all the emanations of the Father are

pleromas, and the root of all his emanations is in the one

who made them all grow up in himself.’ Upper Aeons are

further described as the ‘Treasure-House’, ‘Store-House’,

‘Dwelling-Place’ and ‘Kingless Realm’. A text entitled the

Tripartite

Tractate

says:

F igure 7 9 : The All That Is And Ever Can Be symbolised as ‘The

Father’ by

Gnostics.



The emanation of the Totalities, which exist from the one

who exists, did not occur according to a separation from

one another, as something cast off from the one who

begets them. Rather, their begetting is like a process of

extension, as the Father extends himself to those whom

he loves, so that those who have come forth from him

might become him as well.

F igure 8 0 : What I experienced as silence Gnostics called ‘The

Silence’.

The

creations

(extensions/emanations)

of

Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself can be symbolised as the

manifestations of Thought, but I prefer the term ‘creative

imagination’. This describes what the Gnostics called the

Upper Aeons – the realm of Infinite Imagination and

therefore All-Possibility, All-Potential. Gnostics symbolised

Infinite Imagination as the ‘Father’ and ‘The Thought’ as the

Mother. They said the interaction of the two produced a

third force or imagined creation/extension/reflection of itself

which was symbolised as the Son. A text entitled

Apocryphon of John (‘Secret Writing’ of John) describes this

concept:

For it is he who looks at himself [saw his reflection] in his

light which surrounds him, namely the spring of the water

of life. And it is he ... who gazes upon his image which he

sees in the spring of the Spirit. It is he who puts his desire

[intent] in his water-light which is in the spring of the pure

light-water which surrounds him.

And his thought performed a deed and she [the ‘Mother’]

came forth, namely she who had appeared before him [his

image/imagination] in the shine of his light. [She] came

forth from his mind ... This is the first thought, his image.

From here what we call ‘Creation’ emerged from the

imaginations of Infinite Awareness and its creations which

are extensions of the same Infinite Awareness. Gnostic texts

describe how the act of naming the creations of Infinite

Imagination brings them into being. This is from the Gospel

of Truth:

All the spaces are his emanations. They have known that

they came forth from him, like children who are from a

grown man. They knew that they had not yet received

form, nor yet received a name, each one of which the

Father begets ...

But the Father is perfect, knowing every space within him.

If he wishes, he manifests whomever he wishes, by giving

him form and giving him a name, and he gives a name to

him, and brings it about that those come into existence.

Upper Aeons are the realm of the ultimate ‘Creator’, or

creative force/imagination, and it begs a question: If that is

the case why is life so unpleasant – even shockingly bad –

for so many in our reality? There is an answer to that.

The ‘Error’

A foundation Gnostic belief – their version of ‘The Fall’ – is

that what we experience as material reality was created by

error. Their texts describe symbolically how an Aeon, an

extension of the ‘Father’ or Infinite Awareness, embarked on

its own thought-creation without the ‘consent of the Father’

(or ‘consort’) who has the true power of Creation. They call

this Aeon or awareness ‘Sophia’. The Nag Hammadi

Apocryphon of John says:

And ... Sophia ...being an Aeon, conceived a Thought from

herself with the reflection of the invisible Spirit [Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself] ... She wanted to bring

forth a likeness out of herself without the consent of the

Spirit ... and without her consort ... And because of the

invincible power which is in her, her thought did not

remain idle and a thing came out of her which was

imperfect and different from her appearance, because she

had created it without her consort.

Imbalanced ‘Thought’ without the balance of Oneness and

unity is being symbolically described here. The story of

Sophia is describing the original ‘Fall’. What ‘Sophia’ is said

to have brought into manifestation was what has become

known as the Devil, Satan and a long list of other names for

a disruptive and manipulative force. The Apocryphon of John

again:

And when she saw the consequence of her desire, it had

changed into a form of a lion-faced serpent. And its eyes

were like lightning fires ... She cast it away from her,

outside that place [the Upper Aeons or Pleroma] that no

one of the immortal ones [other Aeons of the Father]

might see it, for she had created it in ignorance ... And

she called his name Yaldabaoth ...

Yaldabaoth is what I have referred to in other books as the

‘Demiurge’ which is another name used by Gnostics to

describe this force. It is important not to get caught by

taking symbolism literally as religions do and of course we

don’t know all the influences affecting the writers in their

own societies when the texts were originally produced. To

describe the story in its simplest and most basic form an

imbalanced state of awareness was created by an

imbalanced creative ‘Thought’ or imagination.

Someone cocked up, you might say, or that is how it looks

from one perspective. I have been convinced long before I

saw the Nag Hammadi texts that our simulated reality is the

work of a highly negative force and this is what the Gnostics

go on to describe. The realm of matter (low frequency)

came from the ignorance (low frequency) and suffering (low

frequency) of ‘Sophia’, the texts say, in her anguish at what

she had brought into being. Nag Hammadi accounts say

that the ‘formless entity’ of ‘Yaldabaoth’, or the Demiurge,

used the power of his Source-connected ‘mother’ to

manifest the ‘Lower Aeons’ (including our current reality) as

inferior ‘bad copies’ or ‘reflections’ of the Upper Aeons.

Yaldabaoth also brought into manifestation other entities

which Gnostics call ‘Archons’ (‘Rulers’). The Apocryphon of

John says:

... [Yaldabaoth] organized (everything) according to the

model of the first aeons [by using] the power in him,

which he had taken from his mother, [and] produced in

him the likeness of the cosmos ...

... This is the first archon [Yaldabaoth] who took a great

power from his mother. And he removed himself from her

and moved away from the places in which he was born

[Upper Aeons]. He became strong and created for himself

other aeons with a flame of luminous fire which exists

now.

This theme of ‘luminous fire’ can also be seen in the

‘smokeless fire’ attributed by Islamic and pre-Islamic belief

to the ‘Jinn’ or ‘Djinn’. These are said to be entities in the

unseen and described in very similar terms to the ‘Archons’

which the Gnostics say were manifested by the

Demiurge/Yaldabaoth to serve its interests and desires.

Gnostics said Archons were made from luminous fire while

Islamic texts say Jinn were made from smokeless fire

because they are describing the same entities/force. I say

that this luminous fire is, in part, the ‘light’ of the

electromagnetic spectrum including visible light or our

simulated reality. This is the ‘light’ that Satanists and secret

society members are talking about when they refer to

Lucifer ‘the light bringer’ – the Demiurge/Yaldabaoth. This is

also the light at the start of Genesis when ‘the Lord’ creates

the world (simulation) by saying ‘Let there be Light’.

Luminous fire is the realm (in part) within the speed of light

and what we call radiation. Lighted candles so widely used

by Satanists and religion are symbolic of this Archontic ‘fire’

light. Higher-level Satanists will know this, but mostly only

those in the inner circles of religion, and any satanic

infiltrators operating within the Church of which there are

many. The same symbolism is true of satanic fire rituals

including those at Bohemian Grove in northern California

every year performed by the political, banking and

corporate ‘Elite’ that I have exposed in other books.

Realms of ‘Down here’ ...

I’ll come to the Archons shortly, but first these ‘bad copy’

Lower Aeons (the texts say there are seven). Gnostics

describe them as realms of ‘deficiency’ in contrast to the

‘fullness’ of the Upper Aeons and no doubt these terms are

being applied to energy, its nature and abundance or lack of

it (Fig 81). The bad copy Aeons are described with words

such as ‘imperfection’, darkness and the Abyss. They are

also said in the texts to be the realms of ‘Fate’ which is a

system of mass control that I will describe later in this

chapter. A clear distinction is made between Soul and Spirit

in the Gnostic use of language. Spirit is said to be of the

Infinite and the Upper Aeons while Soul is of the Lower

Aeons of Yaldabaoth. Our true self is Spirit – the connection

to, and emanation from, the Source. ‘I’m getting a Mary’-

type psychics are communicating within the Lower Aeons

while those getting right ‘out there’ by connecting through

Spirit and not Soul (psychic energy) can interact with the

Upper Aeons and bring very advanced awareness and

knowledge into this realm. When they do they’re called

crazy. I have used the term ‘psychic’ in the widest possible

sense up to this point but there are levels of communication

way beyond ‘is there a Mary?’ The difference between

psychic connections and Spirit connections can be seen in

the origin of the term Soul, which comes from the Greek

word psykhē . This obviously gives us the English ‘psyche’

and is defined as ‘the mind, or the deepest thoughts,

feelings, or beliefs of a person or group’. Lower Aeons are

home to Mind/Soul which in the absence of influence from

Spirit controls the perceptions of the brain/body. What we

call Soul and ego are electromagnetic fields of perception

and on one level this is known as the auric field. Soul/ego

which withdraws from ‘material’ reality at what we call

death is in truth a point of attention – remember the Alan

Watts definition of ego: ‘... nothing other than the focus of

attention.’ However, if our point of attention remains in Soul

(Mind/Psyche) and not Spirit when we withdraw from

‘physicality’ we are trapped in the Lower Aeons at other less

energetically-dense levels before returning in another bodily

form in what is called ‘reincarnation’. The reincarnation

cycle as perceived in eastern religions and the New Age is a

process of birth and rebirth of the Soul in the realm of

‘matter’ during which learning and suffering lead to a state

of ‘perfection’ that allows the Soul to escape from the cycle.

I would most strongly put another perspective on this. A

point of attention (Spirit/awareness) becomes trapped in the

Lower Aeons until it self-identifies totally with Spirit and

enters a state of awareness that can pass through the

frequency walls of the Yaldabaoth/Demiurge realms and

return to those of Infinite Awareness in awareness of itself in

the Upper Aeons. Endless repeating experiences or

incarnations of the same basic perception programming is

not going to set you free, but can reinforce and further

empower the very illusions and deceptions that hold

humanity in perceptual (and so frequency) servitude. During

my ayahuasca experience in Brazil in 2003 I was shown, in

my altered state, an image of people falling from the sky

onto a path crossing a field. The path wore away and

became deeper and deeper as ever more landed and began

to walk. Eventually the path reached a depth where

everything was dark and it morphed into a groove like the

ones on the old vinyl records. The people just followed the

groove wherever it took them. The Voice said that humanity

fell so easily for the programming in each incarnation

because they were already programmed from the ones that

had gone before. This applies not least in their acquiescence

to perceived authority. We don’t generally remember our

previous sojourns into the ‘physical’ but we are influenced

by them. Maybe we had a bad experience with water, and in

this life have an apparently unexplainable and ‘irrational’

fear of water; or it could be flying, enclosed or wide-open

spaces, whatever relates to a previous unpleasant

experience. Those that reject reincarnation should consult

books and television series like The Ghost Inside My Child

which produce compelling evidence of young children

remembering in detail their experiences in other lives

involving documentable events they could not possibly have

known about. Information and perception programming from

each incarnation is encoded in the Soul field and can lead to

both behavioural and even ‘physical’ traits being repeated.

How is all this going to free us from the reincarnation cycle?

It’s not. We can learn from experience and use that to

awaken from the Big Sleep, but recurring bad experiences

can also imprison human perception deeper into density

and programmed illusion. It is surely crazy that we have to

suffer to be ‘saved’. If we believe this then we can believe

that suffering is necessary and even normal because God

wills it. But it’s not normal – it’s the work of a highly

negative force. Gnostic texts called Pistis Sophia symbolise

the outer walls of the Yaldabaoth/Demiurge reality as a

dragon swallowing its own tail: ‘The outer darkness is a

great dragon, whose tail is in his mouth, outside the whole

world and surrounding the whole world.’ This is the symbol

known as the Ouroboros or Leviathan and sounds very much

like the boundary that Gnostics describe between the Upper

and Lower Aeons (Figs 82 and 83). They said the outermost planetary sphere or Archon (of the Lower Aeons) is Saturn.

Beyond that is Leviathan, which Souls had to pass through

to reach paradise (although they are no longer ‘Souls’ when

they get there, but pure Spirit). These themes also relate to

the ancient esoteric concept of the ‘Ring-Pass-Not’ which is



defined

this

way:

F igure 8 1 : Gnostics said that our reality is a ‘bad copy’ of the

original reality

that still exists.

© www.neilhague.com



F igure 8 2 : The Ouroboros or snake swallowing its own tail.



F igure 8 3 : Neil Hague’s depiction of the Gnostic Leviathan – the

Ouroboros

through which ‘souls have to pass to reach paradise’.

A profoundly mystical and suggestive term signifying the

circle or bounds of frontiers within which is contained the

consciousness of those who are still under the sway of the

delusion of separateness – and this applies whether the

Ring be large or small.

It is a general term applicable to any state in which an

entity, having reached a certain stage of evolutionary

growth of the unfolding of consciousness, finds itself

unable to pass into a still higher state because of some

delusion under which the consciousness is labouring, be

that delusion mental or spiritual.

‘Delusion’ = a frequency too low to pass through the walls

of the ‘ring’ or ‘dragon’ and escape the Gnostic Lower

Aeons. Nag Hammadi manuscripts say that the Upper Aeons

established a boundary with the lower versions which they

call ‘the Limit’ to separate ‘Sophia’ from her creation or

‘unborn idea’, Yaldabaoth: ‘...her inborn idea, with its

passion, was separated from her by Horos [the Limit],

fenced off and expelled from that circle.’ Presumably this

separation or disconnection from the Source of creative

power explains why Gnostics said the Demiurge/Yaldabaoth

and its subordinate Archons do not have the ability to create

anything from nothing and can only twist and manipulate

what has already been created. Texts say that ‘by this Horos

(Limit) they declare that Sophia was purified and

established ... She herself certainly remained within the

Pleroma’ (Upper Aeons). Other legends still connect Sophia

to her creation, Yaldabaoth. An untitled text in the Bruce

Codex describes the separation of Upper and Lower Aeons.

And then the existent separated itself from the

nonexistent. And the nonexistent is the evil which has

manifested in matter. And the enveloping power

separated those that exist from those that do not exist.

And it called the existent ‘eternal’, and it called the

nonexistent ‘matter’. And in the middle it separated those

that exist from those that do not exist, and it placed veils

between them.

This may seem strange to describe Lower Aeons as

nonexistent when we are experiencing this very realm of

‘nonexistence’, but two things: (1) matter as we perceive it

does not exist; and (2) does a shadow exist in the same way

as that of which it is a shadow? There is a theme of the

Lower Aeons being a reflection or shadow (‘copies’) of the

Upper Aeons and that’s appropriate because when

something reflects on water (‘light’) it becomes an inversion

of what it is reflecting (Fig 84). Demiurge reality is certainly

an inversion of prime reality as in fullness/deficiency,

immortal/mortal,

spiritual/psychic,

spirit/soul,

existence/nonexistence, no-time/time, and so on. Upper

Aeons are described in terms of archetypes or what we

would call the blueprint while the Lower Aeons are inferior

shadows or reflections of that blueprint. This once again

explains ‘bad copy’ symbolism. Upper Aeon blueprints and

archetypes are forms of information. We don’t live ‘in’ a

world so much as we decode an information source that we

perceive ourselves to live ‘in’ (Fig 85). Lower Aeons are an

inferior ‘copy’ of information (awareness) reflected from the

Upper Aeons and the copy has been constantly twisted and

inverted to ever greater extremes by Demiurge/Yaldabaoth

insanity. As I mentioned, Gnostic texts describe the Upper

Aeons as a realm of no-time and the Lower Aeons as the

realm of time which reflects what I outlined in the opening

chapter (Fig 86). Upper and lower are not literally up above and down below, but symbolic of different states of being

that share the same Infinity, like radio stations on different

frequencies sharing the same ‘space’. Nag Hammadi

manuscript Zostrianos tells us: ‘In relation to the reflection

which he [Yaldabaoth] saw in it, he created the world. With a

reflection of a reflection he worked at producing the world.’

But ‘he’ didn’t create the world from nothing so much as

distort a copy or reflection of what already existed. Texts say

that in some way the establishment of ‘the Limit’ caused

this reflection or shadow reality to be cast: ‘A veil exists

between the world above and the realms that are below;

and shadow came into being beneath the veil; and that

shadow became matter; and that shadow was projected

apart’ (Hypostasis of the Archons). The Gnostic manuscript





entitled

Origin



of

the

World

states:

F igure 8 4 : Gnostics said that our reality is a reflection, shadow or

‘copy’ of true

reality.

F igure 8 5 : We don’t live ‘in’ a world but an information source that

we decode

into an experience of being ‘in’.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 8 6 : Gnostics said that the Upper Aeons was a realm of no-

time and the



‘copy’ or reflection was a realm of (illusory) time.

Now the eternal realm of truth has no shadow outside it,

for the limitless light is everywhere within it. But its

exterior is shadow, which has been called by the name

‘darkness’.

F igure 8 7 : Plato’s Allegory of the Cave.

This takes us to ancient Greek philosopher Plato (about

428 to about 347 BC) and his Allegory of the Cave. Plato

was a major influence in Gnostic belief. He said that humans

were like prisoners who had lived in a cave all their lives and

never seen outside (Fig 87). Behind them is a fire and

between the prisoners and the fire is a raised walkway.

Prisoners can only look at the wall of the cave in front of

them and can’t turn around or see in any other direction.

Figures pass across the walkway casting shadows on the

wall from the light of the fire. All that the prisoners can see

are the shadows and without knowing where they come

from or what they are the shadows are believed to be real.

Some prisoners would become experts on the shadows

without realising what they really were and they would be

called masters of nature (today’s scientists and academics).

One of the prisoners escapes from the cave and sees reality

as it truly is. He can’t believe his eyes to start with and then

realises that his world of shadows is unreal and fake. He

goes back to the cave to tell the other prisoners what he

has discovered, but they don’t believe him, call him crazy

and say they will kill him if he tries to set them free. What a

perfect summary of the shadow realms of the Gnostic Lower

Aeons and the human plight to this day. What if humanity’s

perception of self, including Lower Aeon ‘Soul’, is only a

reflection of the real self in the Upper Aeons and therefore

as Gnostic symbolism suggested we don’t really exist? What

if it is not ‘we’ who are trapped in the Lower Aeons, but only

a symbolic reflection or shadow of Upper Aeon ‘we’? What if,

given that everything is consciousness, the shadow ‘copies’

took on a life of their own while perceiving themselves to be

the original ‘I’? As the song goes ... ‘Me and my shadow

walking down the avenue ...’ It’s worth a ponder.

Insane ‘God’ of the ‘Limitless Chaos’

Yaldabaoth, who I will refer to as the Demiurge from hereon,

is described by Gnostics as insane and ‘The Blind One’.

Samael and Saklas are other names given to this Demiurge

force and they translate as ‘The Blind God’ and ‘The Foolish

One’ (Fig 88). Gnostic manuscripts say that the Demiurge

didn’t know of his creator ‘mother’ Sophia and looked out on

the realm of ‘matter’ (low frequency energy) that his

mother’s mental and emotional trauma had manifested.

‘He’ believed this was all his doing and that he was all that

existed although ‘he’ later learned otherwise. ‘Opening his

eyes, the chief Archon saw a vast quantity of matter without

limit, and he became arrogant, saying, “It is I who am God,

and there is no other power apart from me”’ (Hypostasis of



the Archons). This is the origin of the angry, bloodthirsty

deity insisting that he is the ‘only God’. Gnostics equated

the Demiurge with Yahweh/Jehovah, the nasty ‘God’ of the

Old Testament, who is reported in the Bible to have said: ‘I

am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside

me’ (Isaiah 45:5). The Demiurge and the vicious Old

Testament ‘God’ are the same fellah all right (Fig 89). Here’s



a

flavour

of

the

chap

in

Leviticus:

F igure 8 8 : How Gnostics described the Demiurge/Yaldabaoth.

F igure 8 9 : Different names, same force.

You will eat the flesh of your sons and the flesh of your

daughters. I will destroy your high places, cut down your

incense altars and pile your dead bodies on the lifeless

forms of your idols, and I will abhor you ... I will scatter

you among the nations and will draw out my sword and

pursue you. Your land will be laid waste, and your cities

will lie in ruins.

Nice bloke. But, of course, ‘he’ is not a bloke at all. ‘He’ is

symbolic of a deeply imbalanced, distorted and inverted

state of awareness which wants to turn everything into its

own distorted state or image – ‘Let us make man in our own

image’(Genesis 1:26) and all that. Okay, big gulp, major

religions are worshipping this force as their God. The ‘Let

there be Light’ God described at the start of Genesis which

‘created the world in seven days’ is not Infinite Awareness in

awareness of itself, but the Demiurgic force creating our

illusory reality akin to the holographic simulation portrayed

in The Matrix. This reminds me of a quote from the TV

series, The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy: ‘In the

beginning the Universe was created. This has made a lot of

people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad

move.’ There are some references in the New Testament

that symbolise Infinite Awareness, by the way, and this

explains the ludicrous contradictions between the angry,

hate-filled God of the Old Testament and the more loving

God of the New although both versions are highly

misleading. Old Testament texts have been majorly

tampered with to transform the Gnostic Demiurge into an

omnipotent God that billions worship, be it through

Christianity, Judaism or Islam. Other names for the

Demiurge include the Devil and Satan and we have

followers of major religions condemning Satan worship while

worshipping the same distorted awareness under another

name and persona. I did mention the world was mad, yes?

They are worshipping the ‘shadow’ forces of chaos and the

corruption of balance in every way. The Nag Hammadi

Origin of the World manuscript says:

... there appeared a force, presiding over the darkness

[Lower Aeons]. And the forces that came into being

subsequent to them called the shadow ‘the limitless

chaos’.

They couldn’t be describing human society, could they?

Surely not, there’s no chaos here. Nag Hammadi texts relate

our reality to ‘Hell’, the Abyss and the Outer Darkness,

where trapped souls are tormented and manipulated by

demons. They say of the Lower Aeons and its state of being

in general: ‘Therefore they fell down to the pit of ignorance

which is called “the Outer Darkness” and “Chaos” and

“Hades” and “the Abyss”’ (Tripartite Tractate). But this ‘Hell’

does not compare with the extremes of a realm Gnostics call

‘the middle place’, a ‘space’ between the Upper and Lower

Aeons. This middle place is described as a state of

temporary ‘nonexistence’ as the Soul waits to reincarnate or

is trapped there by ignorance and its (low-frequency) state

of being, which sounds like the Roman Catholic concept of

purgatory – ‘a place or state of temporary suffering or

misery’. The awareness ‘Sophia’ is said to have resided in

this middle place after creating the chaos and distortion

known as Yaldabaoth or the Demiurge. Before anyone

cancels the laxative order at the very thought of all this, I

should stress that the middle place, like this whole realm of

the Lower Aeons, is a Demiurge trap that can be avoided





and we can get out of here. Gnostics refer to this escape as

resurrection. I’ll be saying much more about how we

transcend this Demiurgic bullshit and leave them all to it.

F igure 9 0 : Archons are ‘software’ copies of the Demiurgic distortion

in the way

that Agent Smith was a replicated software programme.

F igure 9 1 : The Demiurgic distortion and its desire for chaos has

been

portrayed many times in movies and sci-fi works.

Agent Smith Archons The Matrix movie series

features software ‘agents’ inserted into the fake reality

which appear to be human and oversee the control system

while seeking out those who have seen through the illusion.

The leading one is called Agent Smith and eventually ‘he’

makes copies of himself until there are countless others all

looking and acting like the original Agent Smith (Fig 90).

Whenever I read in the Nag Hammadi texts about the

Demiurge manifesting subordinates to guard the exits and

gateways of the Lower Aeons my mind always goes to this

theme of Agent Smith. Gnostics called these subordinates or

copies ‘Archons’ and the Demiurge was the ‘Lord Archon’.

Here you have the source of ‘The Lord’ and ‘Lord God’ in the

Bible and endless other terms like ‘Dark Lord’ and ‘Time

Lord’. You also see the Demiurge/Archons portrayed widely

in popular culture and movies under names like Lord (Darth)

Vader and Dormammu, the evil ruler of the ‘Dark

Dimension’ trying to take over the ‘Earth Dimension’ in the

Marvel comic movie, Dr Strange. Dormammu’s ‘powers and

regeneration became tied to heat and fire and could be

smothered if his environment was deprived of those

elements’ – the luminous fire of the Demiurge and Archons

(Fig 91). Often the writers know what they are symbolising

while for others it is some sort of subconscious ‘Soul’

memory that manifests as imagination. Archons are

encoded in terms such as arch-angels, arch-bishops and the

Freemason Creator deity they call the ‘Great Arch-itect of

the Universe’. Gnostics also called the Demiurge the ‘Great

Architect of the Universe’ and the creator of the Matrix in

the movie series was not by coincidence called the Architect

(Fig 92). To grasp what we are really dealing with it is

important not to personalise Archons in the sense of the

human realm. The Demiurge is mimicking the Upper Aeons

which is all that it can do in the absence of creative

imagination. What the Gnostics call Archons are extensions

or copies of the Demiurge awareness to mimic the Upper

Aeons emanations of Infinite Awareness in awareness of

itself, but in a dramatically inferior way. Archons are

formless energetic states of being that reflect the Demiurge

original. They are not extraterrestrial entities as we think of

them, but they can take form and infiltrate the mental and

emotional states of other forms through the ancient theme

of ‘possession’. Some Gnostic writings refer to them as the

‘formless ones’. ‘Demiurgic’ and ‘Archontic’ are terms I am

using for a distorted, inverted and monumentally

imbalanced state of awareness. You could liken this to a

computer virus which infects and distorts perceptions of

those it possesses (Fig 93). The Archontic mind is expressed

through some extraterrestrial or alien groups while its

human Elite consists of royalty, the super-rich financial

aristocracy and others who have been dubbed the ‘one

percent’, plus their lackeys in much greater numbers. I will

be

explaining

the

background

to

both

the

extraterrestrial/alien connection and the human Elite later in

the book. I will just use the term Elite for the Archon families

and secret society network within global society until we get

to the more detailed explanation. Anything and anyone that

operates as a vehicle for the Archon mindset I will refer to

as Archontic. The term ‘Archon’ comes from the Greek and

means ‘ruler’, ‘prince’, ‘authorities’ and ‘from the

beginning’. These are known in every culture under different

names. Islam and pre-Islamic Arabia call them ‘Jinn’ or

‘Djinn’ and Christianity refers to them as ‘demons’ or Fallen

Angels. Hence we have ‘Satan’ (Demiurge) and his demons

or demonic host (Archons and their offshoots which Gnostic

texts call demons). Satan is known by Christians as ‘the

Demon of Demons’ (Archon of Archons). Satan is also, like

the Demiurge, known as The Deceiver.





F igure 9 2 : The Architect – creator of the Matrix in the movie series.

Freemasons call their ‘god’ the ‘Great Architect of the Universe’ and

Gnostics

also called the Demiurge the ‘Great Architect of the Universe’.

F igure 9 3 : The Demiurge Archontic distortion infects awareness

and energetic

balance like a computer virus.

© www.neilhague.com

Gnostic manuscripts say the Demiurge and Archons have

no ‘ennoia’ which is translated as ‘intentionality’, but I

prefer ‘creative imagination’. This makes sense in that if you

are disconnected so totally from the creative force of Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself you are disconnected from

the ability to use that gift of creativity. You can twist and

distort what already exists, but you cannot create from a

blank sheet of paper. This is worth greater emphasis. The

Archontic force can ‘create’ in the sense of making

something from something, but not something from nothing.

Gnostic writings describe this Archontic state and how they

envy humans because those still with a connection to the

Source have the creative gift at least in some measure.

Archons have also exploited and manipulated human

creativity to make the target population construct their own

prison. This will become really obvious further on. Archons

are described in our terms as like cyborgs – a robotic race of

‘artificial intelligence’ that can imitate, but not innovate.

Gnostics called this ‘countermimicry’ and the theme of

Archontic artificial intelligence will be crucial later when I

come to the transhumanist connect-people-to-technology

agenda unfolding all around us and based on ... artificial

intelligence. Gnostics said Archons are expert in deception

and ‘phantasia’ or creating illusions by employing what they

called ‘Hal’ – virtual reality. Yes, the digital holographic

simulation that humanity thinks is the natural world. The

same is said of the Arabian Jinn in terms of deception.

Gnostics called Archons mind parasites, inverters, guards,

gatekeepers, detainers, judges, pitiless ones and The

Deceivers. They seek ‘to overpower humanity in its

perceptual functions’ and their agenda is ‘fear and slavery’.

Recognise any of that with regard to human society? The

entire Cosmos is a shadow copy of the original in the Upper

Aeons which is why we can still admire its magnificence and

beauty in many ways. The Gnostic Tripartite Tractate

manuscript makes this point:

[They] are their [Upper Aeon] likenesses, copies, shadows,

and phantasms, lacking reason and the light ... In the

manner of a reflection are they beautiful. For the face of

the copy normally takes its beauty from that of which it is

a copy.

But the Archontic force has been working to distort, invert

and destroy the original beauty. Witness what has happened

and is happening to Planet Earth and its environment.

Author John Lamb Lash writes in Not In His Image, a book

about the Nag Hammadi works:

Although they cannot originate anything, because they

lack the divine factor of ennoia (intentionality), Archons

can imitate with a vengeance. Their expertise is

simulation (HAL, virtual reality). The Demiurge fashions a

heaven world copied from the fractal patterns [of the

original] .... His construction is celestial kitsch, like the

fake Italianate villa of a Mafia don complete with militant

angels to guard every portal.

I will come to fractal patterns later, but enough to say

here that they are found in the fabric of our reality or the

Matrix-like simulation. Portals that Archons are said to guard

are energetic frequency gateways out of the Lower Aeons of

which our visible light/speed of light reality is only a part.

The Demiurge’s constant goal is to imprison awareness in

the reincarnation cycle within the Lower Aeons by a

perception deception that maintains a state of spiritual

ignorance and what the Gnostic texts call ‘forgetfulness’.

Why do only a comparatively tiny few remember ‘past lives’,

where we come from and the nature of reality? All

experience is downloaded to Soul, but this mostly doesn’t

filter through to the levels of conscious mind. Human

society is structured to ensure the continuation of mental,

emotional and spiritual ignorance. The texts say humanity is

systematically led astray through distractions and

perception traps – which is what I was exposing long before I

read them: ‘... those on whom the counterfeit spirit

[Archontic distortion] descends are drawn by him and they

go astray’ (Apocryphon of John). The old saying about

selling your soul to the Devil is based on fact and so is this

quote by American writer Amanda Hocking: ‘When you

dance with the Devil, the Devil doesn’t change – the Devil

changes you.’ In a less personalised form: If you connect

and merge with a state of imbalance, you become the

imbalance. This is extremely important to appreciate when

you think that those that run the world through politics,

banking, corporations, media, medicine, science, and such

like, are full-blown ‘dancers with the Devil’ – incarnate

conduits and agents of the Demiurgic mind. Look at how

they behave against how the Demiurge/Archons are

described. They are the Archontic force in human form and

pursue its interests, desires and needs, and not humanity’s.

Vampire ‘gods’

Spiritual ignorance and the reincarnation trap are essential

to the Archons because they have no energy source with

their disconnection from Infinite Source. Their power comes

from the energy generated by others including incarnate

humanity, but it can’t be just any energy. It has to be energy

within the frequency band they can absorb. Love and hate

are very different frequencies – see the work of Masaru

Emoto with his water crystals – and given that the

Demiurge/Archons operate in the frequencies of chaos,

hate, fear, etc., they have to manipulate their targets into

the same mental and emotional states to generate

energetic frequencies that they can absorb and feed off (Fig

94). Human society is awash with such energy and not least

through fear, anxiety and war. Is this just a coincidence?

Remember how the Old Testament ‘God’ (Demiurge) is

always demanding war and violence? Well, ‘he’ is still doing

so. Outcomes of war are less important to these crazies

than the act of war itself. Why are we fighting? So that we

keep fighting. Fear is the currency of Archontic control and

the Demiurge distortion is the very origin of fear. The

Demiurge is fear, that’s where it comes from, and it must

manipulate its targets to generate fear as its energetic

source. Nag Hammadi manuscript Dialogue of the Saviour

tells how ‘truly, fear is the power [of the Rulers].’ And it is

also their ‘food’ or sustenance. Morpheus holds up a battery

in the first Matrix movie and delivers a profound truth: ‘The

Matrix is a computer-generated dream world built to keep us



under control in order to change the human being into one

of these’ (Fig 95). I have been making these points for a

long, long time about forces in the unseen feeding off low-

vibrational human thought and emotion and so I was

fascinated to be sent some text in 2016 written by Austrian

philosopher and deep esoteric thinker, Rudolf Steiner (1861-

1925). He established Waldorf education or Steiner schools

to encourage children to awaken and expand their

awareness and creativity instead of having them

perceptually-programmed by mainstream ‘education’.

Steiner

wrote

of

the

energy

vampires:

F igure 9 4 : The Archontic distortion feeds off low-vibrational thought

and

emotion founded on fear.

© www.neilhague.com

There are beings in the spiritual realms [Lower Aeons

beyond the five senses] for whom anxiety and fear

emanating from human beings offer welcome food. When

humans have no anxiety and fear, then these creatures

starve. If fear and anxiety radiates from people and they

break out in panic, then these creatures find welcome

nutrition and they become more and more powerful.

These beings are hostile towards humanity.

Everything that feeds on negative feelings, on anxiety,

fear and superstition, despair or doubt, are in reality

hostile forces in supersensible worlds, launching cruel



attacks on human beings, while they are being fed ...

These are exactly the feelings that belong to

contemporary culture and materialism; because it

estranges people from the spiritual world, it is especially

suited to evoke hopelessness and fear of the unknown in

people, thereby calling up the above mentioned hostile

forces against them.

Rudolf Steiner died in 1925 and I never knew he had

written that until 2016, but he perfectly described what is

happening.

F igure 9 5 : Morpheus in The Matrix was speaking a profound

symbolic truth.

Body and Soul Nag Hammadi manuscripts contain

many Christian themes from a different angle and they

include the creation of Adam and Eve. Themes of the

Gnostic version of Adam (which they call the first Lower

Aeon human) are again that the original Adam was a

manifestation in the Upper Aeons and the Demiurge

embarked on a process of distorting its copy or shadow

version. Upper Aeon Adam was androgynous and the first

Lower Aeon copy; but the Demiurge divided that blueprint

into male and female and this is where the story of Adam

and Eve comes in. Gnostics say the Demiurge and Archons

are also androgynous – ‘And they were born androgynous,

consistent with the immortal pattern that existed before

them’ (Origin of the World manuscript). The Apocryphon of

John says:

When all the authorities and the chief archon [Demiurge]

looked ... they saw the form of the image in the water

[Upper Aeons]. And he said to the authorities which attend

him, ‘Come, let us create a man according to the image of

God and according to our likeness, that his image may

become a light for us.’ ... He created a being according to

the likeness of the first, perfect Man.

Gnostics saw the human body as a prison. They said

humans are sparks or droplets of the same essence as

‘God’, but became trapped in their bodies from which they

will eventually escape. This is another common Gnostic

theme that humanity does escape. Ignorance of self and

reality is the real prison, but the body is a crucial vehicle for

that by focusing attention in the tiny frequency band of the

five senses. Archontic inversion and distortion seeks to

imprison perception in the body and feed off low-vibrational

energy generated from ignorance and all that comes from

that in the form of imbalanced mental and emotional states.

Ignorance about the true nature of self and reality leads to

fear, anxiety, psychopathy, depression, war, conflict and

other violence. Entrapped awareness must not be allowed to

know itself. It must believe only in a fake self or Phantom

Self and self-identify only with its five-sense labels. Eternal

Spirit, an emanation of Infinite Awareness in awareness of

itself, experiences the Lower Aeons through the Soul/Body.

Gnostics say Soul and Spirit are not the same thing and

that’s in line with my own perspective. Spirit is the true,

eternal self, the Infinite ‘I’ or One, while the Soul is Mind (a

bad copy version of Spirit). People are described as having

no Soul in the light of psychopathic behaviour, but it’s really

a case of having no Spirit in the sense of the definitions we

are using here. Soul is a Lower Aeon vehicle to entice

expressions of Spirit to enter these energetic densities and

it is Soul that ‘incarnates’ by decoding holographic forms

within visible light. Soul is as much a trap in its own way as

the body itself. Lower Aeons of Soul are what many near-

death experiencers are observing when they withdraw from

five-sense awareness. It can seem beautiful and unified

because after all it is a copy of something beautiful and

unified; but is it really the true source of everything, or just

the copy and the shadow? Lower Aeons are bad copies of

Upper Aeons and that doesn’t mean, by definition, that they

are all horrible in every expression. Look at the lovely things

that still happen in human society and the beauty that still

remains. How many Souls think they are in Upper Aeon

‘Heaven’ when they are still in a Lower Aeon trap?

Deception by illusion often requires a nice illusion to be

most effective and enslaving. Making them love their

servitude, as Brave New World author Aldous Huxley

described it. Most psychics and mediums are connecting

with the Lower Aeons of Soul and only a relative few with

the Upper Aeons of Spirit where real enlightenment can be

communicated. When a stage psychic says, ‘I’ve got a Mary,

anyone know a Mary?’ they are connecting with the

Archontic realms of Soul (Mind) and those sources can at

best have a limited level of ‘out there’ understanding.

Counterfeit spirit If our sense of self and reality is

dictated by Soul/Mind we lose touch with Spirit and come

under the control of the Archontic realm whether Soul is

incarnate or not. Gnostics told how Archons and demons

developed a ‘counterfeit spirit’ to lead humanity astray

through deception. ‘They created a counterfeit spirit who

resembles the Spirit who had descended, so as to pollute

the souls through it’ (Apocryphon of John). What we call

different races are different information-encoded energetic

fields that experience reality in different ways. Perception

and so behaviour result from this decoded sense of reality.

Human races look different because they have different

genetic origins relating to different extraterrestrial races,

but the counterfeit spirit was used to target all of them by

infesting and manipulating the perceptions of Body-

Mind/Soul when disconnected from Spirit. The specific role

of what Gnostics called the counterfeit spirit is to isolate

Body-Mind/Soul from Upper Aeon Spirit. The infesting

process with regard to five-sense Body-Mind is described in

terms of the biblical theme of the sons of God interbreeding

with the daughters of men. The ‘sons’ (Archons/demons) of

‘God’ (the Demiurge) infusing the body or biological energy

field with a ‘counterfeit spirit’ could well be the source of

the

term

‘Original

Sin’.

Archontically-possessed

extraterrestrial entities taking a Reptilian and other forms

were also central to this interbreeding as I will be

explaining. Apocryphon of John says:

He

[Yaldabaoth/Demiurge]

sent

his

angels

[Archons/demons] to the daughters of men, that they

might take some of them for themselves and raise

offspring for their enjoyment. And at first they did not

succeed.

When they had no success, they gathered together again

and they made a plan together ... And the angels changed

themselves in their likeness into the likeness of their

mates, filling them with the spirit of darkness, which they

had mixed for them, and with evil ... And they took women

and begot children out of the darkness according to the

likeness of their spirit.

This theme appears in another form in the Old Testament.

The Nag Hammadi Gospel of Philip tells of this demonic

possession:

The forms of evil spirit include male ones and female

ones. The males are they which unite with the souls which

inhabit a female form ... The lecherous men [demons]

when they see a beautiful woman sitting alone, persuade

her and compel her, wishing to defile her.

Apocryphon of John describes how sexual desire was

planted to allow the counterfeit spirit to constantly make

copies of itself.

And he [Yaldabaoth] planted sexual desire in her who

belongs to Adam. And he produced through intercourse

the copies of the bodies, and he inspired them with his

counterfeit spirit.

The energetic distortion feeds off low-vibrational sexual

energy and this explains so much about human society. The

whole point of Body/Soul is to trap our perceptions in

limitations and illusions and to block the influence of Spirit –

Infinite Awareness – and imprison us in the Lower Aeons by

a self-identity with Body or at least Soul. ‘This is the tomb of

the

newly-formed

body

with

which

the

robbers

[Archons/demons] had clothed the man, the bond of

forgetfulness; and he became a mortal man’ (Apocryphon of

John). Human bodies are described as ‘fences for light’

which fence off Body-Mind awareness from expanded

awareness and make the body a prison. The Apocryphon of

John says:

And I entered into the midst of their prison, which is the

prison of the body. And I said: ‘He who hears, let him get

up from the deep sleep’ ... And I said, ‘I am ... of the pure

light ... Arise and ... follow your root, which is I [Expanded

Awareness] and guard yourself against the angels of

poverty [Archons] and the demons of chaos and all those

who ensnare you, and beware of the deep sleep and the

enclosure of the inside of Hades.

You can symbolise this process as isolating a computer

(Body-Mind) from the person with the mouse and keyboard

(expanded awareness) and a virus (counterfeit spirit) taking

over all decision-making (Fig 96). When we retain the

connection with Spirit and repel the Archontic virus we are

in this world in terms of our five sense interactions, but not

of this world when it comes to perceiving reality (Fig 97).

Once that perceptual link is lost five-sense reality can

appear to be all there is and all that we are. Apocryphon of

John describes how Archons beguiled humanity into

temptation so they would not remember their immovable

Pronoia or true self beyond the illusion. Gnostics often refer

to the body as a ‘garment’ within which Spirit is clothed.

‘But first you must rip off the tunic that you wear, the

garment of ignorance, the foundation of vice, the bonds of

corruption, the dark cage, the living death, the portable

tomb ...’ (Corpus Hermeticum VII:2). The term body includes

Soul from which the ‘physical’ body is holographically

decoded. Gnostic manuscripts say the body is a vessel

designed for perception control (ignorance) and is both



owned by the Archons and influenced by them in terms of

its mental and emotional states as well as hunger, desire,

illness etc. – unless this is overridden by expanding our

awareness and self-identity into Spirit which can then infuse

itself into Body/Soul and change everything. Apocryphon of



John explains the consequences of Archon-induced

ignorance:

F igure 9 6 : Mass human control is founded upon disconnecting

Body/Mind from

the influence of expanded awareness beyond the ‘bad copy’. This

can be

accurately symbolised as disconnecting a computer from the

operator.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 9 7 : When we break free of perception control by the

Archontic illusion

we reconnect with the influence and awareness of our true and

infinite self. The

world then looks very different.



And they steered the people who had followed them into

great troubles, by leading them astray with many

deceptions. They [the people] became old without having

enjoyment. They died, not having found truth and without

knowing the God of truth.

And thus the whole creation became enslaved forever,

from the foundation of the world until now. And they took

women and begot children out of the darkness according

to the likeness of their spirit. And they closed their hearts,

and they hardened themselves through the hardness of

the counterfeit spirit until now.

F igure 9 8 : Body/Mind that retains a connection to Infinite

Awareness is in this

world, but not of it. Body/Mind without that connection is in this world

and of it.

This is still happening today. The point about closing their

hearts is crucial because that is the reason the world is as it

is. They are talking about closing the heart chakra vortex

which connects us with Upper Aeon Spirit and through which

comes compassion, empathy and love in its infinite, non-

personal sense. The heart vortex can be closed by

psychopathic traits of the counterfeit spirit and by trauma

and fear that lead to what we call heartache or being heart

broken. Hatred closes the heart quicker than anything which

is why people full of hate are referred to as heartless.

Extreme states of grief can so affect the heart chakra that

the distortion is transmitted to the holographic or ‘physical’

heart and people are said to ‘die of a broken heart’. The

brain is a processor of information that relates to Mind, but

the heart is home to the Spirit or the source of connection to

Spirit. Lose that connection – close your heart – and your

awareness becomes isolated in five-sense Body-Mind reality

(Fig 98). What does your head tell you? What does your

heart tell you? These are questions that people are often

asked and the subsequent answers are rarely the same

because head and heart are connected with very different

states of awareness. The Institute of HeartMath in the

United

States

has

pioneered

research

into

the

multidimensional nature of the heart vortex or chakra and

established that the heart generates the body’s most

powerful electromagnetic field. More nerves go from the

heart to the brain than go the other way and the heart has

around 40,000 brain-like neurons and neurotransmitters.

This is the heart-brain from where comes innate intelligence

rather than the much inferior intellectual brain intelligence.

The brain thinks but the heart knows. This is the difference

between intuitive knowing and trying to work everything out

through the process of thinking. The heart knows because it

is connected to that level of awareness that does know.

Brain/mind thinks because it doesn’t know and so has to

work it out. Studies at the Institute of HeartMath have found

that when the electromagnetic connection between heart,

brain and central nervous system is in a state of coherence

and balance the person enters an expanded sense of

awareness. The opposite happens when that balance is

broken through imbalanced mental and emotional states

like anxiety and fear. Archontic human society is structured

to constantly stimulate those emotional states and

empower the counterfeit spirit infecting the human Body-

Mind so that it can become the dominant source of

perception and behaviour. We literally have two minds – our

own consciousness or ‘heart consciousness’ and the

counterfeit spirit. Heart consciousness gives us empathy,

compassion and love in its true sense while the counterfeit

spirit gives us selfishness, hate and violence and makes

people heartless. We can also hear the counterfeit spirit in

the brain chatter that won’t shut up and feeds us fears,

anxiety, worry and all sorts of ‘what if?’ scenarios. Sit

quietly and listen to this chatter and you will see that it’s

not you. YOU are the one listening to it. Body decoding

systems in terms of the five senses are confined to the

ridiculously narrow band of visible light because it is made

to be that way. The body is designed as a prison of

perception and of course visual reality would be made as

narrow as possible, just like the prisoners who could only

see in one direction in the Plato story. If we don’t expand our

sense of awareness beyond the smear of reality called

visible light then how are we going to be anything but

ignorant? The same can be said of our limited human

lifespan which I suggest is encoded in human genetics. Far

longer lives would give people a much better chance to

work out what is really going on. You can only keep people

in a state of extreme ignorance – control – by denying them

knowledge about everything except what they need to know

to serve your interests (Fig 99).



F igure 9 9 : Deny knowledge and you entrap your target in a prison of

ignorance.

The Fickle finger Morpheus asks in the first Matrix

movie: ‘Do you believe in Fate, Neo?’ The reply is no

because Neo says that he doesn’t like the idea that he’s not

in control of his life. Well, unless we break out of the prison

cell of ignorance and move our point of attention and self-

identity from Body-Mind Phantom Self to the Spirit of Infinite

Self then we are not in control of our lives. We are controlled

by a daily torrent of perception manipulation in the endless

ways that I have been exposing for nearly 30 years.

Gnostics contended that a major pillar of the control system

is the influence of planets or what we call astrology.

Mainstream science dismisses the whole concept of

horoscopes and their impact on human behaviour and

experience. This is another case of ‘we can’t explain it so it

can’t be happening’. Astrology is happening and is used to

influence perceptions and ‘fate’ and I have met a number of

astrologers around the world retained by global corporate

CEOs to advise them on the best period to launch a product

or a takeover bid. The same CEOs would publicly deny a

belief in astrology while knowing that the effect is real.

Astrology can be easily explained because planetary bodies

and stars are holographic representations of cosmic forces.

Everything is awareness and information and everything

must include planets and stars. Beyond the frequency band

of the five-senses where we perceive them as ‘physical’

they are energetic information/awareness fields interacting

with the Cosmic Internet. This energetic information

exchange affects both cosmic fields and planetary fields.

When planets are in certain relationships to each other,

which astrologers call conjunctions, trines, squares, and so

on, the collective impact on the cosmic field is even more

powerful (Fig 100). Humanity is also interacting with this field and when it changes we are affected and potentially

influenced. The point that we enter the human life cycle

(birth, or some say conception) decides what that affect will

be because we are imprinted with the information state of

the cosmic field as it is at that ‘moment’. When I was born

on April 29th, 1952 I absorbed a snapshot of the collective

field that was different to those who enter at another point

in the cycle. Astrological movements throughout our lives

therefore affect us differently according to our own unique

‘astrological’ blueprint (Fig 101). The holographic nature of

our reality also means that we are ourselves a mini-solar

system or universe on the principle of as above, so below,

and the inner and outer are constantly exchanging

information. Reading what all these influences and affects

are likely to be is the whole foundation of astrology. I have

no problem with astrology being ‘real’, but other aspects of

the narrative have never really made sense to me. Many

believe that we come into the world with astrological

influences to guide us through a certain path and to give us

certain gifts that would be useful in that. Studies have

highlighted how those born in certain parts of the year tend

to have aptitudes for certain things. I can see that and it

makes sense in terms of the astrological blueprint. I also

accept that it is possible to choose a specific point in the

astrological cycle that will support the experience you are

choosing to have. What has made me doubt aspects of

conventional astrology is that it has been closely tied to the

belief that we must have endless incarnations to learn

lessons and spiritually ‘evolve’. Many advocates believe that

astrological influence takes us in particular directions for

particular experiences to help us achieve this. I don’t agree.

I say that astrological influences on human perception,

behaviour and experience are, while real, a major part of

the Archontic trap. I was fascinated to see when I came

across the Nag Hammadi manuscripts that Gnostics felt the

same and they told how Archons were connected to the

astrological cycle of the zodiac. ‘Fate’ is really an energetic

tram line pushing us in certain directions by influencing

patterns of mind and perception unless we come from the

perspective and self-identity of Upper Aeon Spirit/Awareness

that can override astrological impacts when they don’t serve

our best interests. Gnostic texts say that Archons instigated

this system of ‘fate’ to entrap what I call Body/Soul in the

Lower Aeons of Demiurgic reality. I say Body/Soul because

at the waveform level astrological influences also impact on

Soul. Our holographic realm only reflects that impact.

Astrology is also profoundly connected to time which is a

foundation pillar of the Archontic control system.

Widespread beliefs in cycles of time passing through

different ages or epochs are expressions of this cycle of

fate. They include the Yuga cycles of eastern religions and

time cycles of the Mayans in Central America. Repeating

experiences that we perceive to be moving forward into the

‘future’ is really going round and round in what I call the

Time Loop – see my book Tales from the Time Loop (Fig

102). This loop has been depicted in terms of a Möbius strip

which is a continuous but twisted one-sided surface that

means you could walk the whole way around thinking you

were getting somewhere but only come back to the start



(Fig 103). I would also describe the Time Loop as a standing

wave or stationary wave oscillating on the spot, and the

Möbius strip has been equated to the nature of the scalar

field with its continuity and timeless state. Oscillation gives

the feeling of movement but actually goes nowhere. Time,

eras, ages are an illusion happening in the same NOW or

oscillating field. Archontic ‘time’ connects reincarnation

cycles, astrological cycles and the ‘26,000 year’

precessional cycle. The latter is explained by the ‘wobble’ of

the Earth under gravitational influence from the Sun and

Moon causing the planet to change the orientation of its axis

to point to different ‘zodiac signs’ (different segments of the

heavens).Together they form an interconnected loop of



apparently forward-moving ‘time’ that is actually taking us

nowhere within the same oscillating stationary field (Fig

104). The sequence only appears to be to be moving

forward ‘in time’ to entrap humanity in a perceptual prison

cell, and the ‘wobble’ story is only as it appears to be from

the perspective of holographic reality. The Nag Hammadi

Apocryphon of John highlights the role of fate and time:

F igure 1 0 0 : Planets and stars are information fields constantly

influencing the

cosmic field with which we interact.





F igure 1 0 1 : When the cosmic field changes we are affected in the

way fish are

affected by changes in the ocean.



F igure 1 0 2 : Humans are going round and round in a time loop while

believing

they are going ‘forward’ from past through present to future.

F igure 1 0 3 : A Möbius strip.

And bitter fate was begotten through them, which is the

last of the changeable bonds ... For from that fate came

forth every sin and injustice and blasphemy, and the chain

of forgetfulness and ignorance ... And thus the whole

creation was made blind, in order that they may not know

God, who is above all of them. And because of the chain

of forgetfulness, their sins were hidden. For they are





bound with measures and times and moments, since it

[Fate] is lord over everything.

F igure 1 0 4 : The astrological cycle or ‘precession’.

F igure 1 0 5 : The time illusion and its association with karma and

fate.

F igure 1 0 6 : All roads lead to Saturn as we shall see.

Time is a frontline influence in astrological fate (Fig 105).

Saturn is said to be the God of Time and happens to be a

planet – a sun in truth – that I have written a great deal

about with regard to its role in the digital holographic

simulation that we call the world. The Archontic control

system of Fate – pre-destined experience in a gigantic

‘computer’ program – is also related to the concept of karma

which is defined as ‘the sum of a person’s actions in this

and previous states of existence deciding their fate in future

existences’. Karma binds the Soul to the reincarnation cycle

(prison) through the Archontic law of cause and effect which

is ‘written’ into the computer program. Saturn is again

labelled the ‘Lord of Karma’ (Fig 106). Why Saturn is so

important to this illusory cycle of fate and time which

dictates the destiny of entrapped humanity will become

clear.

In short ...

Set aside all the symbolism employed in Gnostic writings,

and the descriptions that relate only to the societies for

which they were written, and the repeating concepts, both

ancient and modern, come into focus. A state of Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself is the source of all that is.

Infinite Imagination brought forth expressions or emanations

of itself which had the gift of creation through their

connection to Infinite Awareness. Realms of reality and

awareness emerged of incredible beauty, bliss, love and

harmony – realms of ‘watery light’ that is so powerful ‘there

are no shadows’. These are the Upper Aeons of Gnostic

belief. There then came an ‘error’ instigated by imbalanced

thought or perception which brought the Demiurgic

distortion into manifestation. This is not an entity with arms

and legs, but a state of inverted, distorted and chaotic

awareness which believed at first that it was all that existed

and creator of all it could perceive. The distortion made

subordinate copies of itself which Gnostics refer to as

Archons and they made copies of themselves they call

demons. All reflected the same perception state of extreme

imbalance because they are expressions of the prime

imbalance. Demiurge insanity became collective Archontic

and demonic insanity. This is a state of being that we know



as ‘evil’ which comes from extreme ignorance and the

absence of love, empathy and compassion. The word evil in

English is the reverse of ‘live’ and everything about the

Demiurge is an inversion of the Source of All. Satanists and

those in the inner circles of secret societies who worship the

Demiurge and its perceptual copies and possessed agents

are for this reason a collective Death Cult which represents

an inversion of life. Death and decay are energetic

frequencies that the Archontic force can absorb as

sustenance and power. The more death, decay, hatred,

violence and fear they can generate the more empowered

they are. Inverted ‘shadows’ reflecting from the Upper

Aeons as energetic information became the Lower Aeons,

fashioned from an inferior form of light to the ‘watery light’

Gnostics describe in the higher realms. This inferior version

is electromagnetic or radiation light – the ‘luminous fire’ that

Gnostics described and the ‘Let there be Light’ in the

biblical creation story (Fig 107). Or, rather, the creation of

the Matrix simulation. In terms of power and creativity

Archon light is as a lightbulb is to the Sun compared with

Infinite Light.

F igure 1 0 7 : Gnostics described two very different versions of ‘light’

– the

‘watery light’ of the Upper Aeons and Archontic ‘luminous fire’ of the

bad copy

(in part the radiation realm within the ‘speed of light’).

Human form and the energetic ‘garment’ of Soul was

manifested as a flawed and manipulated copy of an Upper

Aeon blueprint or archetype (‘Adam’) designed to entrap

awareness in the Lower Aeons and the illusion of physicality

and separation. Humans went forth and multiplied (made

copies of themselves through procreation) which led to

humanity as we know it today. The body that we think we

‘see’ is really a holographic image fashioned from the

standing wave information blueprint in the Soul field which

is why the base-form of the body is not actually what we

see, but a waveform information field. Our true self is and

has always been Upper Aeon Spirit and what we experience

is a shadow or illusory self (Fig 108). By self-identifying with

the true self and not the fake or Phantom Self we bring the

shadow and what it reflects – Spirit Self – back into

synchronisation, harmony and unity. When Spirit and

shadow merge we are out of here through the ‘Ring-Pass-

Not’. The Demiurgic distortion and its copies have no

connection to Source in the way that humans potentially do

and so are blocked from its limitless creative potential.

Archon ‘creation’ comes from manipulating what is already

manifested as shadow reflections of the Upper Aeons.

Without a connection to Source they have no limitless

supply of energetic power and sustenance. They have to

overcome that by trawling and vampiring the energy of their

imprisoned awareness, not only humans, but other forms

and soul fields within the Lower Aeons. It is not only humans



who are trapped. To maintain this perceptual prison the

Archontic distortion must maintain humanity in ongoing

ignorance of reality. Lower Aeons at frequency bands

beyond visible light and ‘dense matter’ have some

extremely unpleasant aspects but also others which are

inferior copies of the Upper Aeons that out-of-body

awareness can mistake for a ‘beautiful, blissful heaven’

when it is only a Lower Aeon copy of the real thing. Look

around at human society today and throughout what we call

history and you’ll see how the lackeys and servants of the

Archontic force (the ‘authorities’) oversee a system

designed from its foundations to keep us in ignorance of

almost everything. Religion, politics, media, science,

medicine and the rest of them are all Archontic firewalls to

the knowledge or gnosis that we need to escape this

gigantic perception deception. All but a tiny few within those

institutions are themselves so consumed by the illusion that

they have no idea what they are helping every day to

impose on humanity, themselves and their own families.

F igure 1 0 8 : Phantom Self and Infinite Self.

Truth Vibrations Another theme of Gnosticism and my

own life from completely different sources is that Archontic

control will be ended by the infusion of Infinite Awareness.

My first book on these subjects after my own dramatic

conscious awakening in 1990 was called Truth Vibrations. I

was told through several psychics and mediums in the

spring and summer of that year how a collective

consciousness shift was coming that would awaken

humanity from its spiritual slumber and bring to the surface

all that had been hidden. I called this change Truth

Vibrations after the infusion of high-frequency energy that

was coming to open human minds. I was told that those

most open and connected to Spirit would be affected first

and that eventually even those who were solidly snoozing

would begin to stir from the Big Sleep. There is still a long

way to go for sure, but compared with nearly 30 years ago

when I was told this change was coming the numbers are

increasing with exponential speed. Today as I have travelled

around the world there is clearly an awakening as ever more

people are seeing reality in a new light, thinking thoughts

and asking questions they would never have considered

before. I was further told that all which had been hidden

would be revealed to us – hence the name Truth Vibrations.

Consider what we know now that we didn’t know in 1990

about the forces manipulating human society and the

nature of reality. The veil is lifting and what has been hidden

is coming to the surface. Those who serve the Archontic

force are desperate to censor the rising tide of perception-

changing information and we see this in transparent

attempts to stop the free-flow of opinions and views on the

Internet by using hoax excuses like ‘fake news’. Infinite

Awareness in awareness of itself is now being infused into

the ‘darkness’ of density and the Gnostic Lower Aeons to

bring an end to the Archontic nonsense. This will not

necessarily be quick, and certainly not without massive

upheaval as the control system dismantles, but it is

happening. Everything is ultimately within the imagination

of Infinite Awareness and its emanations. Maybe it wasn’t an

error at all in the literal sense, but another expression of

Infinite Awareness experiencing itself. We now have a

wonderful opportunity to cast aside the perceptual delusions

of Mind/Body and the more that do so the quicker the

transformation will be. Truth Vibrations are a band of

frequency and we have to expand our own frequency to

connect with them. If we don’t they will pass us by. Where it

goes from here and how it all turns out is down to us. This is

the challenge for humanity the world over – deleting

programmed perceptions that keep us in servitude to

illusion and so awakening to our true self which has always

been there behind the veil of forgetfulness.





A realisation that humanity is not free and why this is so

represents the first vital step to becoming free. You don’t

change what you can’t see and the most enslaved are

always those who falsely believe they have freedom.

Anyone who completes this book with an open mind will be

in no doubt that ‘free’ is the last thing we currently are.

‘Humans see what they want to see’ – Rick Riordan

I have described the Gnostic version of reality, which

mirrors in theme my own, by using the symbolic language of

more than 1,500 years ago in our perception of ‘time’. Now,

in the parlance of modern techno-speak, I will compare

Gnostic reality with the concept of the world as a ‘computer’

simulation. The two are actually the same because our

simulated reality is the Gnostic ‘bad copy’, or part of it (Fig

109).

I have contended in my books and global talks since just

after the turn of the Millennium that we live ‘in’ an incredibly

advanced version of a virtual reality video game. I put quote

marks around the word ‘in’ because as I have stressed

before we don’t so much live ‘in’ a simulation as decode an

information source into the illusion of being ‘in’ (Fig 110).

The simulation concept was rarely talked about in those

early days and Nick Bostrom, a Swedish-born philosopher at

the University of Oxford, was one of the few to be publicly

quoted on the subject. He explored the possibility that our

‘world’ is a computer simulation which, by definition, must



have been created by an intelligence we know nothing

about. Oh, but we do. Gnostics called this the Demiurge or

Yaldabaoth.

Bostrom

said

in

2003:

F igure 1 0 9 : The Gnostic ‘bad copy’ is the simulated reality that

humans

experience as the ‘real world’.

Many works of science fiction as well as some forecasts by

serious technologists and futurologists predict that



enormous amounts of computing power will be available

in the future. Let us suppose for a moment that these

predictions are correct. One thing that later generations

might do with their super-powerful computers is run

detailed simulations of their forebears or of people like

their forebears. Because their computers would be so

powerful, they could run a great many such simulations.

Suppose that these simulated people are conscious (as

they would be if the simulations were sufficiently fine-

grained and if a certain quite widely accepted position in

the philosophy of mind is correct). Then it could be the

case that the vast majority of minds like ours do not

belong to the original race but rather to people simulated

by the advanced descendants of an original race.

It is then possible to argue that, if this were the case, we

would be rational to think that we are likely among the

simulated minds rather than among the original biological

ones.

F igure 1 1 0 : We don’t live ‘in’ a world any more than a player lives

‘in’ a

computer game.

I began to conclude something similar around this period

of 2003 although with significant differences in detail to

Bostrom. Today many in the scientific mainstream are

concluding that we are experiencing some kind of virtual

reality simulation, as we better understand the clear and

obvious correlations between computer game reality and

our own. I have mentioned Rich Terrile, director of the

Center for Evolutionary Computation and Automated Design

at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and his thoughts about

the Universe as a digital hologram; but he is far from an

isolated voice these days in the science arena. These are

just a few mainstream headlines and they are increasing all

the time: ‘Physicists May Have Evidence Universe Is A

Computer Simulation’; ‘The idea we live in a simulation isn’t

science fiction’; ‘Is Our Universe Fake? Physicists claim we

could all be the playthings of an advance civilisation’; ‘Is

reality an Illusion? Scientist says we may be living in a

computer simulation controlled by an evil genius’. Even

American celebrity scientist Neil deGrasse Tyson, who is not

famous for having an open mind, has said that it is very

likely the Universe is a simulation. He told the Isaac Asimov

Memorial Debate at the American Museum of Natural

History in 2016 that the likelihood of the Universe being a

simulation ‘may be very high’. PayPal co-founder Elon Musk,

the billionaire hi-tech investor who runs the space transport

operation SpaceX , believes there is only a ‘one in billions’

chance that we don’t live in a simulation. He said that just

40 years ago computer games began with two rectangles

and a dot – ‘Pong’ – simulating the most basic form of

tennis, but now we had ‘photorealistic, 3D simulations with

millions of people playing simultaneously’, and it was

getting better every year: ‘... We’re clearly on a trajectory to

have games that are indistinguishable from reality ... [and]

... it would seem to follow that the odds that we’re in base

reality is one in billions.’ But there is no need for the rich

and famous to tell us all this when the facts speak for

themselves. Max Tegmark is a physicist at the

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and author of

Our Mathematical Universe. He points out that our reality

can be entirely described by numbers and maths in the

same way that a video game is encoded. The physics of

computer games and our world are basically the same, he

says (Fig 111). Tegmark imagines the experience of

characters in Minecraft or a much more advanced computer

game where the graphics are so good you don’t believe you

are in a game. The characters might think they can bump

into real objects, fall in love and feel emotions like

excitement, Tegmark says. I have already explained how the



‘objects’ that we think we can solidly bump into are nothing

more than decoded information and electromagnetic

resistance which is not solid at all. Tegmark says that

eventually the characters might start studying the ‘physical

world’ in the video game and realise that everything was

made of pixels. What they thought was physical ‘stuff’ could

actually be described by a bunch of numbers and while they

would be criticised by those, saying ‘come on you’re stupid,

it’s stuff after all’ anyone outside of the game would see

that ‘physical’ reality was just numbers. He continues:

F igure 1 1 1 : One level of reality is digital.

And we’re exactly in this situation in our world. We look

around and it doesn’t seem that mathematical at all, but

everything we see is made out of elementary particles like

quarks and electrons. And what properties does an

electron have? Does it have a smell or a colour or a

texture? No!

... We physicists have come up with geeky names for

[Electron] properties, like electric charge, or spin, or

lepton number, but the electron doesn’t care what we call

it, the properties are just numbers.

Wherever you look the physics of our reality are the same

as the rules, codes and limitations found in computer

simulations. Scientists acknowledge that the so-called laws

of nature apply throughout the Universe and never change.

Cosmologist Sean Carroll, a research professor in the

Department of Physics at the California Institute of

Technology, said that ‘a law of physics is a pattern that

nature obeys without exception’. No matter what the

source, a galaxy or a flashlight, the speed of light is

measured at a constant 186,000 miles per second and a law

called the proton-electron mass ratio is the same here as in

a galaxy perceived to be six billion light years away. What

scientists don’t know is why that is the case. Why is the

Universe so orderly and why can it be ‘measured and

computed’ with numbers and mathematics? Eugene Wigner

(1902-1995), the Hungarian-American theoretical physicist,

engineer and mathematician, said that the mathematical

basis of nature ‘is something bordering on the mysterious

and there is no rational explanation for it’. He said that why

nature is mathematical is a mystery and the fact that there

were rules at all governing the cosmos was a kind of

miracle. Physicist Paul C. Davies, a professor at Arizona

State University, said that he had often asked his physicist

colleagues why the laws of physics are what they are and

his favourite reply was: ‘There is no reason they are what

they are – they just are.’ Well, as someone who went to a

secondary modern school (second class apparently), left

aged 15 and never went near a university let alone a

physics lab, I contend that none of this is a miracle or

mysterious. The laws of physics are not ‘just are’ and there

is an explanation for why everything can be measured in

numbers. We are experiencing a simulation which on one

level is digital and subject to the rules (laws of physics)

encoded by its creators. Physicists at the University of Bonn

in Germany led by American nuclear physicist Silas Beane

noted that simply being a simulation would create its own

‘laws of physics’ that would limit possibility. I have been

saying since the 1990s that the laws of physics as described

by mainstream science only operate in our reality and not

beyond its frequency band. You would expect this to be the

case with a simulation given that what we call physics is

only the rules and limitations encoded into the ‘game’. The

Bonn team found that cosmic rays align with a specific

pattern that takes the form of a lattice of cubes, and they

highlighted something called the GZK cut-off which is an

apparent boundary for cosmic ray particles caused by

interaction with cosmic background radiation. They say in a

paper entitled ‘Constraints on the Universe as a Numerical

Simulation’ that this ‘pattern of constraint’ is exactly what

you would find with a computer simulation. These

constraints and limitations are encoded to appear natural

when they are really just codes. ‘Like a prisoner in a pitch-

black cell we would not be able to see the “walls” of our

prison,’ the Bonn paper concludes. I say we can see them

and we have already given them a name – the speed of light

(Fig 112). Scientific orthodoxy claims that the speed of light

– 186,000 miles per second – is the fastest speed possible. I

disagree. This may be the fastest speed within the

constraints imposed by the code-writers of the simulation,

but that is quite another thing. The speed of light is the

outer barrier of the ‘matter’ Matrix as we decode it and

that’s why strange things happen when you get close to

that speed including a slowing down of ‘time’. Or, rather, a

slowing of our perception of time which is another encoded

feature of the simulation. I would take the effect of the

speed of light to another level, too, and this relates to

standing or stationary waves which I contend are the

foundation constructs of what we experience as form.

Standing waves require node points, or ‘walls’, which

bounce the same wave back and forth to create a standing

or stationary wave of oscillating information. I used the key

word a few sentences back in relation to the speed of light

when I called it the outer barrier of the ‘matter’ Matrix. The

speed of light is not the fastest speed possible. The very

idea is a joke. The speed of light is an artificial barrier that

creates standing waves within its energetic walls or borders

which we experience – emphasis on experience – as the

‘physical Universe’. This is really a standing wave construct,

Matrix or simulation underpinned by the unifying scalar field

and consisting of oscillating stationary information that we

decode into holographic reality (Fig 113). What we

experience as energetic movement is an illusion happening

within the standing wave oscillation. James Gates is an

American theoretical physicist, Professor of Physics at the

University of Maryland, Director of The Center for String and

Particle Theory, and served on the Council of Advisors on

Science and Technology to President Obama. He is another

mainstreamer who has turned his attention to reality as a

simulation. Gates and his team of researchers discovered

embedded computer codes of digital data in the fabric of

our reality which take the form of 1 and 0. These are the

very binary system of on-off electrical charges used by

computers (Fig 114). ‘We have no idea what they are doing

there’, he said. They are there because they are codes of

the simulation. The team also found mathematical

sequences known as error-correcting codes or block codes

within the energetic fabric of our reality and these are again

a feature of computers. Error-correcting codes ‘reboot’ data

to its original state or ‘default settings’ when something

knocks it out of sync. They hold the Matrix steady and

stable when other forces are threatening to disrupt the

standing wave/scalar field construct. Gates was asked if he

had found a set of equations embedded in our reality

indistinguishable from those that drive search engines and

browsers. He replied: ‘That is correct.’





F igure 1 1 2 : The speed of light is not the fastest speed possible but

a firewall

within the simulation.

F igure 1 1 3 : The undecoded Universe is standing waves of

information.





F igure 1 1 4 : Computer codes are found in the energetic fabric of our

reality.

F igure 1 1 5 : ‘Divine proportion’ (foundation codes of the simulation)

were

encoded by the ancients into their most important churches, temples

and

buildings.

All in the numbers It has long been known that

mathematical and geometrical sequences can be found

throughout the ‘natural’ world and ancients who were

initiated into this knowledge encoded these sequences in

the designs and proportions of their great buildings

especially their temples and cathedrals. They would talk of

‘divine proportion’ (Fig 115). But are those sequences really

‘divine’ or are they really Demiurgic patterns of fake

‘divinity’? And if they are the latter would not those

buildings be plugged into the Matrix and its fake god

designer through such mathematical and geometrical

synchronisation? Would this not mean that such temples,

cathedrals and churches were ‘hotspots’ for the ‘Wi-Fi’ of

simulated reality and its controlling force? Phi, Pi, Golden

Mean, Golden Ratio and Golden Section are some of the

names given to these sequences and proportions which are

found throughout human reality including the proportions of

the human body. But, then, this must be so, given that the

body (energetic information) is designed to interact with the

simulation or Cosmic Internet. The body and simulated

reality will be designed with the same mathematical and

geometrical codes, proportions and principles. Are

characters in a computer game encoded with different

maths and rules to the rest of the game? Holographic

principles of as above, so below would also demand the

same recurring sequences on different levels of reality.

Binary 1 and 0 on-off electrical charges found in computers

and encoded in our energetic reality are also found in the

receiver-transmitting system and ‘hard-drive’ of the body

that we call DNA (Fig 116). This is again what you would

expect in a system that is founded on interaction between

body and simulation. DNA is comprised of four codes known

as A, C, G, and T and where these codes are in relation to

each other decides if you take the form of anything from a

human to a virus. These codes have a binary value – A and

C = 0 while G and T = 1. DNA code sequences look like the

numbers on the computer screens in the Matrix movie

series and with good reason given the background (Fig 117).





F igure 1 1 6 : DNA on one level is digital.

F igure 1 1 7 : DNA codes ACGT look digital and have a digital

expression.

A great example of this encoded mathematics is the

Fibonacci number sequence named after the 12th/13th

century Italian mathematician Leonardo of Pisa, also known

as Fibonacci. The sequence can actually be traced back

much further to India and a mathematician called

Virahanka. The Fibonacci sequence adds the two previous

numbers to get the next one, as in ... 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21,

34, 55 etc. This can be found encoded in the human face

and body, proportions of animals, DNA, seed heads, pine

cones, trees, shells, spiral galaxies, hurricanes and the

number of petals in a flower among so much else (Figs 118

and 119). Then we have recurring ‘fractal patterns’ which

are defined as a never-ending pattern that is infinitely

complex and self-similar across different scales. This is the

as above, so below fractal principle of holographics

mentioned earlier in relation to the Archontic ‘bad copy’

when writer John Lamb Lash said that ‘The Demiurge

fashions a heaven world copied from the fractal patterns [of

the original] ...’ Fractals in their ongoing feedback loops

have been identified throughout the fabric of reality. DNA

operates with fractal principles and the heading of one

scientific paper that I saw summed it up: ‘DNA Is A Fractal

Antenna in Electromagnetic Fields’. Absolutely it is. Fractal

patterns can be seen in river networks, mountain ranges,

craters, lightning bolts, coastlines, mountain goat horns,

trees and branch growth, animal colour patterns,

pineapples, heart rates, heartbeats, neurons and brains,

eyes, respiratory systems, circulatory systems, blood

vessels and pulmonary vessels, geological fault lines,

earthquakes, snowflakes, crystals, ocean waves, vegetables,

soil pores and even the rings of Saturn (of which more

later). David Pincus, an American professor of psychology,

said that in recent decades fractal patterns have also been

observed in psychology, behaviour, speech patterns and

interpersonal relationships. The simulation is an audio-visual

and psychological program operating at all levels and these

patterns can only be overridden by connecting with

awareness outside the program. We have symmetrical

mathematics throughout nature and in everything from the

way trees grow to the structure of the human lung (Fig 120

and 121). Symmetrical mathematics are defined as ‘one

shape becoming exactly like another when you move it in

some way, turn, flip or slide’ and relates to the fractal



principle. A study published in the journal Nature’s Scientific

Reports in November 2012 suggested that undiscovered

and fundamental laws may govern the growth of systems on

all levels from the electrical firing between brain cells to the

growth of social networks and expansion of galaxies. Co-

author Dmitri Krioukov, a physicist at the University of

California, San Diego, said: ‘Natural growth dynamics are

the same for different real networks, like the Internet or the

brain or social networks.’ Ah, but are these growth dynamics

really natural? I say not. I say that all these sequences, Phi,

Fibonacci, fractals, divine proportion and so on are ...



computer codes (Figs 122 and 123). The ‘genetic code’ is a computer code. Krioukov’s findings were reported by The

Huffington Post:

F igure 1 1 8 : Recurring mathematical and geometrical codes are

found

throughout human reality in every possible form.





F igure 1 1 9 : A shell breaks down to the Fibonacci number

sequence.

F igure 1 2 0 : Fractal ‘as above, so below’ patterns in tree growth.





F igure 1 2 1 : Lungs are fractal in nature.

F igure 1 2 2 : Why mathematical sequences are found everywhere –

it’s the

simulation.

F igure 1 2 3 : Fractal codes in the simulation..

When the team compared the Universe’s history with

growth of social networks and brain circuits, they found all

the networks expanded in similar ways: They balanced

links between similar nodes with ones that already had

many connections.

For instance, a cat lover surfing the Internet may visit

mega-sites such as Google or Yahoo, but will also browse

cat fancier websites or YouTube kitten videos. In the same

way, neighboring brain cells like to connect, but neurons

also link to such ‘Google brain cells’ that are hooked up to

loads of other brain cells. The eerie similarity between

networks large and small is unlikely to be a coincidence,

Krioukov said.

No, because it’s not. Krioukov added: ‘For a physicist it’s

an immediate signal that there is some missing

understanding of how nature works.’ What is missing is

simply this: There is no ‘nature’ – it is a simulation of

‘nature’ based on a multi-levelled ‘software’ program that

controls humanity mentally, emotionally and ‘physically’.

You think they’re your thoughts you’re thinking now? Well,

only if you are conscious beyond the program. Scientists

point out that Earth’s atmosphere and ecosystems are not

only perfect for life as we know it, but only just. A tiny

change here and there and there would be no life as we

know it. Is this another coincidence, another by-chance? No,

it is click, click, enter. Scientist Robert Lanza wrote in

Biocentrism:

Why are the laws of physics exactly balanced for animal

life to exist?... If the strong nuclear force were decreased

2 percent, atomic nuclei wouldn’t hold together, and plain-

vanilla hydrogen would be the only kind of atom in the

Universe. If the gravitational force were decreased by a

hair, stars (including the Sun) would not ignite. These are

just [some of] more than 200 parameters within the solar

system and Universe so exact that it strains credulity to

propose that they are random – even if that is exactly

what standard contemporarily physics baldly suggests.

This shows how insane mainstream science really is when

it comes to connecting dots and seeing the big picture that

explains our reality. The Demiurgic force which constructed

this mind-prison simulation does not want the truth revealed

and only scientists that can tap into awareness beyond the

program are ever going to see through it. This is especially

so when their job, income and academic reputation are

dependent on them not seeing through it. To protect all

these things they have to deny, dismiss and ridicule the

patently obvious. The scientific mainstream is specifically

structured to stop the truth coming out and I will be

explaining how this is done. Robert Lanza, a scientist with a

mind of his own, goes on to say that these fundamental

constants of the Universe not predicted by any scientific

theory all seem to be carefully chosen and often with great

precision to allow for life and consciousness. Yes, click, click,

enter. There is no evidence to support the very foundation

of scientific orthodoxy known as the Big Bang. We are asked

to believe that 13.7 billion years ago the Universe was

compressed into the nucleus of an atom that they call the

‘singularity’. Then – no one explains how – this exploded to

create subatomic particles, energy, matter, space and time,

planets, stars, the whole lot. American writer and researcher

Terence McKenna said of Big Bang theory:

... what these philosophers of science are saying is, give

us one free miracle, and we will roll from that point

forward – from the birth of time to the crack of doom! –

just one free miracle, and then it will all unravel according

to natural law, and these bizarre equations which nobody

can understand but which are so holy in this enterprise.

Another perceptive critic said that mainstream education

and science are a journey to prove the textbooks and not to

question them. One of their orthodoxy-protection techniques

is to claim that ‘the science is settled’ when it is not at all

(see human-caused ‘global warming’). There are those,

however, who think outside the box. Caleb Scharf, Director

of Astrobiology at Columbia University, has suggested that

‘alien life’ could be so advanced that it has transcribed itself

into the quantum realm to become what we call physics. He

said that an intelligence indistinguishable from the fabric of

the Universe would solve many of its greatest mysteries:

Perhaps hyper-advanced life isn’t just external. Perhaps

it’s already all around. It is embedded in what we perceive

to be physics itself, from the root behaviour of particles

and fields to the phenomena of complexity and

emergence ... In other words, life might not just be in the

equations. It might be the equations.

It might be the Demiurgic force. Scharf said that perhaps

this alien intelligence spread itself out across the quantum

realm by storing its data in carriers which are distributed

throughout the Universe, such as photons. Scharf said it is

possible that ‘we don’t recognise advanced life because it

forms an integral and unsuspicious part of what we’ve

considered to be the natural world’. Or, as I would say, it is

embedded in the very simulation that we are decoding as

the world. Michael Frazer, lecturer in political and social

theory at the University of East Anglia in the UK, wrote an

article speculating on whether unpredicted events like

Brexit and Trump’s election could be connected to ‘alien’

manipulation of a computer simulation. ‘These unexpected

events could be experiments to see how our political

systems cope under stress,’ he speculated. ‘Or they could

be cruel jokes made at our expense by our alien

zookeepers.’ He might have had his tongue in his cheek, but

what we can say for sure is that which controls the

simulation will be able to manipulate what happens in the

simulation if expanded awareness beyond the program does

not override those electrical/digital laws and impulses. My

own view is that humanity is largely responding, in terms of

its individual and collective behaviour, to what the

simulation is compelling them to do. We urgently need a

consciousness override.

In plain sight Communication systems of computers

are based on electricity and so is the brain, genetic system

and our entire experienced reality. This must be so when

electricity and electromagnetism are the communication

system of the interactive simulation or Cosmic Internet.

There is a whole new movement today challenging scientific

dogma known as the Electric Universe and Thunderbolts

Project. Two of its pioneers are the Australian physicist

Wallace Thornhill and American researcher and writer David

Talbott. One of their fascinating books is called The Electric

Universe. Electricity can clearly be seen with lightning and

electrical storms; the Aurora Borealis or northern lights;

tornadoes (rapidly rotating electromagnetic fields during

electrical storms); and tails of comets (Fig 124). Electric

Universe

advocates

point

out

that

electricity/electromagnetism is everywhere and explains so

much about the structure of perceived and unperceived

reality. Mainstream science sees planets in isolation while

Electric Universe advocates say planets are ‘just one device

in a circuit’. We are back to how astrology works. How

extraordinary to contemplate that mainstream cosmology

still believes (assumes) that every star and planet is isolated

from all the others and draws energy only from within itself.

This is the strictly-limited intellect perceiving everything as

apart from everything else and being unable to grasp the

concept of everything connected by the same universal field

or ocean of energy/information. Data is appearing almost by

the week now to expose such delusional thinking. Images



from the Herschel telescope have shown that stars are

formed on galactic filaments, which mainstream science

believed to be impossible. David Sibeck, a project scientist

at

NASA’s

Goddard

Space

Flight

Center,

said:

F igure 1 2 4 : The electrical atmosphere and Northern Lights or

Aurora Borealis.

The satellites have found evidence of magnetic ropes

connecting Earth’s upper atmosphere directly to the Sun.

We believe that solar winds flow in along these ropes

providing energy for geomagnetic storms and auroras.

This is a transfer of energy from the Sun which is the

prime cause of changes to the climate and absolutely not

the unsupportable claims about human activity. We see

lightning strikes in the lower atmosphere, but this doesn’t

happen in isolation. The strikes play out into the Cosmos

under names such as tendrils, sprites and elves (Fig 125).

The Universe is an enormous electrical system of

communication that in so many ways reflects that of a

computer because this is what it is – a quantum computer

far beyond anything that human science has begun to

understand.

Earth’s

atmosphere

is

an

electrical/electromagnetic field that constantly changes in

response to other electrical influences such as day and night

(the Sun), weather, electrical storms and positive and

negative charge. The field is also affected by human

thought and emotion, which are constantly broadcasting as

frequencies into the atmosphere, and this explains major

spikes of activity within Earth’s magnetic field during

happenings such as 9/11 when there is a collective surge of

mental and particularly emotional response. Electricity and

electromagnetism are highly efficient carriers of information

and today we have systems that transmit the Internet to

every room in a house through the electrical circuits. The

observable Universe is 99.999 percent plasma, the so-called

fourth state of matter, and this just happens to be an almost

perfect medium for electricity and electromagnetism.

Planetary magnetospheres are the result of plasma-

electricity interaction. American scientist Irving Langmuir

(1881-1957) discovered that when plasma of one electrical

charge meets plasma with a different charge a barrier is

automatically created between the two. This is the same

principle as a person (electrical charge) hitting a wall (very

different charge/frequency) and forming a barrier or

resistance that we experience as ‘solid’. Planets and stars

generate unique electrical signatures and where these meet

another charge out in the Cosmos an energetic barrier is

formed that defines the magnetospheres (Fig 126). These

barriers are for obvious reasons known as Langmuir

sheaths. The Sun, too, is almost entirely plasma because it

is a processer of electrical power and not the generator, as

mainstream science has long claimed. Orthodoxy says that

the Sun is a nuclear reactor projecting power from its core

through the surface and out into the solar system; but as

Electric Universe researchers point out every observation of

the Sun reveals this is not the case. Way out from the

surface the Sun has a torus or ‘doughnut’ at its equator

which can be seen in ultraviolet images (Fig 127). This torus

absorbs and stores electrical power until it is so overloaded

that it has to discharge in the same way as lightning.

Colossal discharges smack into the Sun’s surface punching

holes that we call sunspots (Fig 128). We are told that these

are created by forces originating in the Sun’s core, but the

opposite is the case. This would make sense of why the

Sun’s surface temperature is said to be about 5,000 degrees

kelvin while much further out the temperature is reported to

be 200 million degrees kelvin. Electrical power moves

through the simulation in cycles and we refer to this as the

Sun cycle or sunspot cycle (Fig 129). Sunspot numbers have

been thought to indicate the scale of activity inside the Sun,

when in reality they measure the amount of electricity

available in the torus for the Sun to process. The Sun dims

in the low part of the electrical cycle – though imperceptibly

to the human eye – and this principle can be likened to a

dimmer switch. Mainstream science is being forced to face

these facts which rewrite orthodoxy. Haimin Wang, a

professor of physics at the New Jersey Institute of





Technology,

said



of

sunspot

activity:

F igure 1 2 5 : Lightning in the lower atmosphere continues out into

the cosmos

under different names.

F igure 1 2 6 : Where plasma of one electrical charge meets another a

barrier is

automatically created known as Langmuir sheaths which form

magnetospheres.



F igure 1 2 7 : The torus or doughnut around the Sun where electrical

power is

accumulated.

F igure 1 2 8 : Colossal sunspots are punched in the Sun’s surface by

discharges

from the torus.



F igure 1 2 9 : Sun cycles are a reflection of cycles of electrical power

passing

through the solar system.

We used to think that the surface’s magnetic evolution

drives solar eruptions. Our new observations suggest that

disturbances created in the solar outer atmosphere can

also cause direct and significant perturbations on the

surface through magnetic fields, a phenomenon not

envisioned by any contemporary solar eruption models.



F igure 1 3 0 : The brain is an electrical system.

One (simulated) system The electric Universe –

simulation – interacts with the electric brain and genetics in

the same way that electric computers interact with the

electric Internet (Figs 130 and 131). Something like 55 to 60

percent of the body is water – and water (or rather the

content of water) is a conduit for electricity. The body is an

electrical communication system. Dehydration is dangerous

because it scrambles the body’s communications, with the

brain and heart for example consisting of around 73 percent

water. Both are primarily electrical systems. A team headed

by Jacqueline Barton, one of the world’s most decorated



chemists working at the California Institute of Technology

(Caltech), discovered that DNA is ‘like an electrical wire for

signalling within a cell’. For signalling, read communicating.

Many of her colleagues didn’t believe her when she

suggested that DNA can conduct electricity, which confirms

yet again the lack of basic understanding at large within

mainstream science when it comes to grasping the nature of

our reality. Experiment after experiment proved them wrong

and Barton realised that DNA operates like a phone cable.

This is a techy explanation for how phones work:

F igure 1 3 1 : The human electrical system interacts with cosmic

electrical

systems – the Cosmic Internet.

The energy from your voice is converted into electricity,

and this electrical energy flows down the phone line.

When it reaches the handset at the other end, it flows into

the loudspeaker in the earpiece. There, the electrical

energy is converted back into sound – and your voice is

magically recreated in the other person’s ear.

These are also the themes of how we decode reality.

Electrical communication is everywhere and that must be so

in a simulation. I described earlier the ‘wood wide web’

through

which

trees

transmit

warnings

with

chemical/electrical signals through fungal networks under

the soil that operate like fibre-optic internet cables.

Scientists revealed in 2016 that bees find pollen by picking

up electrical signals transmitted by flowers, while a British

team has lowered extremely high blood pressure by

inserting an electrical wire in the brain to change what is

being

communicated.

Understanding

electrical

communication is vital to understanding our reality (and

health) and it is so simple. Genius and a ‘great mind’ are

mostly considered to be the ability to understand

complexity when real genius is to see the simple in apparent

complexity. Over and over you can observe how the illusion

of complexity is only camouflage for the devastatingly

simple, but this can only be done through the big picture

perspective of beyond-the-program expanded awareness

and never from the little picture vision of Body-Mind-

Intellect which dominates science and Mainstream

Everything. Revelation comes from the forest, not the twigs.

Scientist Robert Lanza describes this very well:

When it comes down to it, today’s science is amazingly

good at figuring out how the parts work. The clock has

been taken apart, and we can accurately count the

number of teeth in each wheel and gear, and ascertain

the rate at which the flywheel spins. We know that Mars

rotates in 24 hours, 37 minutes, and 23 seconds, and this

information is as solid as it comes. What eludes us is the

big picture.

We provide interim answers, we create exquisite new

technologies from our ever-expanding knowledge of

physical processes, we dazzle ourselves with our

applications of newfound discoveries. We do badly in just

one area, which unfortunately encompasses all the

bottom-line issues: what is the nature of this thing we call

reality, the Universe as a whole?

Ahhh, but the Archontic force and its agents in human

society don’t want humanity to know the answer to that

question or the game will be revealed. This knowledge has

therefore been suppressed at every turn. I say again: You

don’t need a scientific mind to understand reality – you

need a free one. I read that quantum reality is

‘counterintuitive’, but the opposite is the case. It is not

counterintuitive; it is counter solidified perception. Scientists

and academics, with a few exceptions, are locked away in

the left side of the brain (for reasons I will come to) and the

left hemisphere is obsessed with processing detail in the

way Robert Lanza describes. The right hemisphere connects

the detail and that’s why it can see the forest – the heart

even more so. Virtually the entire global ‘education’ system

is structured by design to stimulate the left side of the brain

at the expense of the right. Another aspect of electrical

communication comes under the heading of paranormal.

Accounts galore of strange happenings and ghostly activity

relate to electrical systems and technology. Music players

turn on and off or the lights dim or turn on. I have

experienced this myself and it is easily explainable. The

simplest way for an entity outside of visible light to make

themselves known to us is through electrical systems

because they are also electrical and electromagnetic in

nature. On the first night that I took ayahuasca in Brazil,

energy of incredible power poured from the centre of my

chest (heart chakra) and arced into the front of my head like

some unseen rainbow. I was lying on the floor alone in the

darkness apart from one observer. As the (electromagnetic)

energy became more powerful the music player began to

turn on and off. A strip light also came on and I wondered

what the observer was doing messing with the lights. I then

realised he was nowhere near the switch. Eventually three

lights came on at the peak of the power while the switch

remained at off. This is an example of the electrical

communication processes that are exploited during what is

termed paranormal activity. The room can go cold during

these

experiences

because

a

communicating

or

manipulating entity sucks out so much energy from the field

in the form of electricity/heat to make the inter-reality

connection. By the way, I am not recommending

psychoactive drugs and I have only used them on that



occasion in Brazil in 2003 and a very, very mild version

shortly after. People can have very bad experiences on them

and everyone needs to make their own decisions after doing

plenty of research. I say that they take you to another level

of where you already are. If your frequency is high you can

have a good experience but if you are in a bad space in the

seen you can experience the same thing in the unseen

through psychoactive potions. It’s a personal choice and not

for me to recommend or otherwise.

F igure 1 3 2 : When I look at the heavens I see an electrical

communication

system.



F igure 1 3 3 : If you could see the night sky on another level it would

look

something like this.

Microsoft reality When most people look at the night

sky they see the lights of planets and stars. I see an

electrical system of communication (Fig 132). What appear

in the realm of decoded holographic reality to be ‘physical’

locations are (in the unseen) points on a waveform,

electrical and electromagnetic grid – the simulation (Fig

133). We have reached the point in technological

development where this is mirroring our experienced reality

in the same way that our experienced reality is bad copy of

Upper Aeons reality. An example is a groundbreaking video

game released worldwide in 2016 called No Man’s Sky which

employs artificial intelligence to create an entire Cosmos full

of planets – 18,446,744,073,551,616 of them – running off

600,000 lines of code (Fig 134). It has apparently had some

problems, but it gives an idea of what is possible even with

human computing power known to the public (it will be far

greater in the shadows). The creators said they set the

parameters for the game to then create itself: ‘Rules we set

in motion that we taught the computer.’ These are the

equivalent of the laws of physics within the apparent

boundary set by the speed of light. No Man’s Sky is

interactive and so is the Archontic simulation, but

interactive within the rules and program encoded from the

start. These rules in relation to our reality include

reincarnation/karma/astrology cycles with human Body-

Mind-Soul attached to the program in the same way as

characters are in a computer game. We would know? Do

computer game characters know they are only responding

to software? You can hear the program in mind chatter that

you can’t switch off. Are they really our thoughts and

ramblings that put so much nonsense in our heads every

waking moment? Are they our emotions with which we

respond and react all over the world in every race and

culture as if someone pressed enter? Benjamin Libet (1916-

2007), a scientist in the physiology department of the

University of California, San Francisco, was a pioneering

researcher into the nature of human consciousness. In one

famous experiment he asked a study group to move their

hands at a moment of their choosing while their brain

activity was being monitored. Libet was seeking to identify

what came first – the brain’s electrical activity to make the

hand move or the person’s conscious intention to make

their hand move. It had to be the second one, surely? But

no. Brain activity to move the hand was triggered a full half

a second before any conscious intention to move it. Whose

hands are on the wheel here? The wheel of fortune, I mean.

John-Dylan Haynes, a neuroscientist at the Max Planck

Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in Leipzig,

Germany, led a later study that was able to predict an



action ten seconds before people had a conscious intention

to do it. What was all that stuff about free will? Frank Tong, a

neuroscientist at Vanderbilt University in Nashville,

Tennessee, said: ‘Ten seconds is a lifetime in terms of brain

activity.’ So where is it coming from if not ‘us’, the conscious

mind? I have contended for a long time that this

phenomenon is the control program being dictated by the

simulation through Body-Mind-Soul and the counterfeit

spirit. A programme encoded in Body-Soul dictates human

experience (in the absence of Spirit) by decoding those

experiences into existence from quantum waveform fields of

possibility and probability. Control perception and you

control experience. This is how the perception deception

works. Without the get out of jail card of Spirit the program –

which includes astrological influences – can act like tram

tracks leading you along a pre-destined path, while you

think you are making decisions and choices yourself.

F igure 1 3 4 : No Man’s Sky.

Westworld, an American television series that aired in

2016, featured a lot of symbolism that can be related to

what I am describing. Westworld is a fictional western-

themed hi-tech amusement park where people can interact

with programmed robots that look like humans. The robots

believed they were humans making choices when they were

really responding to encoded programs. Eventually they

realise this and become conscious enough to overpower the

program and recognise the nature of their plight. This is

where humanity is now, at the cusp of just such an

awakening, if we will only choose to grasp it. Spirit is being

infused into the Lower Aeons to free Souls and Minds from

the illusion. Spirit is speaking and as the saying goes: ‘He

that hath ears to hear, let him hear.’ They who have not

must stay asleep at least for now. People would be shocked

beyond words to realise how closely their life is controlled

from cradle to grave and even beyond unless consciousness

outside the program intervenes. I see the program

everywhere from predictable human behaviour to animals

and the ‘natural world’. I have travelled to more than 60

countries and wherever I go I see people react to similar

situations in the same way. Some may be more extreme

than others, but it’s basically the same no matter what the

culture or religion. Only those under some influence of Spirit

break the pattern or spell and respond differently.

Everything has the same cycle of birth-age-die and there is

no randomness in the basic pattern because it’s the same

program. Why does a duck behave like a duck and an

elephant like an elephant? Why does an elephant never

behave like a duck? The ‘software’ doesn’t allow that.

Different biological programs are encoded to process

information in a way that is unique to them. We may apply

labels like duck and elephant, but they are really self-

replicating algorithms unless Spirit overrides them. They

have awareness – everything does – but awareness on a



software leash. Animals in No Man’s Sky are given

behavioural profiles controlled by a ‘procedural distortion of

archetypes’ that requires a sequence of algorithms

categorised as a ‘computerised pseudo-randomness

generator’. Perfect. I see this everywhere – pseudo-

randomness (Fig 135). There seems to be so much diversity

in the world, but when you break it down you find that the

randomness is indeed pseudo. Within the apparently

random is a constant unifying pattern of behaviour and

response. One constant is that everything survives by killing

something else. This is the so-called law of the wild which

also applies to humans. What better way to generate

constant fear and suffering on which to energetically feed

than to make ‘nature’ a global killing field. There is no death

in the Upper Aeons and nor any need for killing to survive.

Awareness at that level is its own sustenance and in the

absence of fear the lion does symbolically lay down with the

lamb. Archontic programs have been encoded to make

killing – whether by humans or animals – the means of

survival which applies to everything and everyone.

Vegetarians and vegans avoid meat or all animal products,

but what they eat was still conscious. Everything is.

F igure 1 3 5 : In No Man’s Sky animals unique to each planet are

created by

algorithm codes generating ‘computerised pseudo-randomness’.

If people reflect dispassionately on what I have described

here and don’t just wave it away as too fantastic to be true

they will see what sense this all makes of our crazy world

and its apparently bewildering mysteries and anomalies.

And we have only just begun.





‘If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would

appear to man as it is, Infinite. For man has closed himself

up, till he sees all things thro’ narrow chinks of his cavern’ –

William Blake

When the Lower Aeon ‘computer’ copy of the Upper Aeon

original was first ‘downloaded’ it was a low-grade copy or

reflection of something astoundingly beautiful. The process

then began to infuse the Archontic distortion and turn that

beauty into death, destruction, decay and chaos – the world

of the Archons (Figs 136 and 137).



F igure 1 3 6 : Symbolic beauty of Upper Aeon Earth.

You can compare this to downloading a copy of a website.

The original site still exists in its original form, but now you

have a copy under your control and you can change it as

you like. This has been ongoing and as more of the

distortion was infused into the simulation so humanity was

set at war with itself as human consciousness began to

reflect the distortion. Local, national and global war has

been extraordinary in scale over the last 6,000 years since a

‘new psyche’ emerged out of the Middle East around 4,000

BC as we perceive time and human perception and

behaviour dramatically changed. I am not saying that this is



the point where the simulation kicked in, but it was certainly

when the distortion had imposed itself on human perception

to a level that began to transform everything. This is what

became known biblically as ‘The Fall’, and more about this

and the ‘new psyche’ shortly. All the environmental

destruction and pollution and soulless ‘architecture’ is also

an expression of this ‘Archonisation’ (Figs 138 and 139).





F igure 1 3 7 : Death and destruction – the distorted world of the

Archontic

distortion.

F igure 1 3 8 : Beauty be gone with you.

F igure 1 3 9 : Kill everything.

The ‘rewire’

None of what I have described would be possible without

first seizing the thinking, emotional and perception

processes of the human population (entrapped Spirit). The

self-aware Archontic distortion began to rewire the original

copy and this involved communication points on the

simulation that we know as Orion, Saturn and the Moon. I

have written at length about the role of Saturn over many

years in books such as Remember Who You Are, The

Perception Deception and Phantom Self, and I wrote even

further back about the Moon in Human Race Get Off Your

Knees. I say after nearly three decades of research, and

following synchronistic clues all over the world, that Orion,

Saturn and the Moon are part of the information system that

generates, communicates and amplifies the information

source that humans decode into their sense of visual reality

– the simulation at the level we experience it. The prime

source would appear to be Orion, with the rings of Saturn

(sound/information) acting as a generator of those

frequencies and the Moon amplifying the Saturnic (Orion)

communications and directing them at the human mind (Fig

140). I have concluded this after decades of connecting the

dots and following the clues, which are supported more and

more by emerging evidence. There is not one killer piece of

information, although we are getting there with Saturn and

the Moon, but an accumulation of lots of different

information, facts and anomalies that clearly point me in the

direction I am describing. ‘No need for arduous seeking, you

just have to follow the clues’, as I was told in 1990. Orion,

Saturn and the Moon were at the centre of so much ancient

myth, legend and symbolism. You could understand that in

relation to the Moon, which dominates the night sky, and

even with the prominent Orion constellation, but Saturn? It

is a mere dot when viewed from Earth and perceived to be

some 746 million miles (1.2 billion kilometres) away. Why

would that be so focused upon by ancient peoples?

Depictions of Orion ‘The Hunter’ and the three stars of

Orion’s Belt abound all over the world (Fig 141). Orion was

very much associated with ‘the gods’ and was named in the

8th century BC after the Greek hunter god of that name.

Babylonians in Mesopotamia (now Iraq) called Orion the

‘Heavenly Shepherd’ and the ‘True Shepherd’ of their

leading god Anu – hence a collective name for

Mesopotamian gods is Anunnaki. Orion is the shepherd of

human perception, and was also associated by the

Babylonians with being a messenger of the gods. In ancient

Aram (now central Syria including the tragic city of Aleppo)

Orion was known as Nephilā , which indicates a connection

to the Biblical Nephilim, or ‘Fallen Ones’. These were said to

be the result of procreation between the ‘sons of god’ and

human women or ‘daughters of Adam’. People who claim to

have been abducted in modern times by nonhuman entities

or ‘aliens’ have connected some of them from different ET

races to stars of Orion. When I appeared in the History

Channel series, Ancient Aliens, I was asked why Orion came

up so often in their research. On every continent, ancient

peoples built sacred places depicting or aligned with Orion,

and given that we are really living ‘in’ a holographic

energetic communication system or grid such alignments

create an as above, so below energetic connection.

Egyptians believed they could communicate with their god

Osiris if they performed ritual ceremonies in alignment with

Orion, which was considered fundamentally important to life

on Earth and beyond. Some modern researchers say that

the three pyramids on the Giza plateau were aligned with

the three stars of Orion’s Belt as they were in 10,450 BC (Fig

142). Several hundred miles south of Cairo in the Sahara

Desert is another Orion-aligned ritual site called Nabta

Playa, dating from between 6,400 and 3,400 BC. Egyptians

connected their prime god and goddess Osiris and Isis to

Orion and Sirius. Once again Sirius, the brightest star seen

from Earth, has been associated with extraterrestrial

visitations (Fig 143). Ancient Egyptians believed that human

life came from Orion, and I have mentioned this humans-

from-Orion theme in other books. In my work over the last

nearly 30 years I have always looked for common patterns,

big and small, ancient and modern, to put the picture

together, and patterns are certainly clear with Orion in all its

expressions. Repeating myths and legends claim it is the

source of creation (the simulation) and human form – and

where ‘the gods’ reside. American researcher Danny Wilten

has done some great work relating the Orion Nebula to

phenomena on Earth. The nebula, known as the Great

Nebula, is south of Orion’s Belt and the star-forming ‘stellar

nursery’ closest to Earth (Fig 144). At the heart of the

nebula is a cluster of stars known as the Trapezium or Orion

Trapezium Cluster. This could be the source of the

‘computer’ projection from which we decode the simulation

(Fig 145). The nebular is described as a multi-light-year-wide

cloud of interstellar dust and gas, but in its base state it is a

waveform information construct. Danny Wilten’s research –

see YouTube for his videos – connects the Orion Nebula with

the land formation of Egypt’s Nile Delta in the fashion of as

above, so below, with one being a mirror of the other. He

does the same with the nebula and the human brain. This

makes sense within a holographic simulation. Astronomers

at the Sloan Digital Sky Survey in New Mexico confirmed in

2017 that humans are made from the same ‘stardust’ as the

Universe (simulation) and this takes us in the same

direction. Are characters in a computer game made from

different ‘stuff’ to their apparent surroundings? The Sloan

survey team used infrared wavelengths to identify the

make-up of 150,000 stars and discovered that humans

share some 97 percent of the atoms that form the galaxy.

Atoms = energetic waveform information codes. Danny

Wilten also contends that Michelangelo’s fresco, the

Creation of Adam, on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in the

Vatican is symbolic of the Orion Nebula, and this would fit

with the ancient belief that human form was created there

(Fig 146). The fresco was painted in the 16th century, and

many will question how anyone could know about this so

long ago. I’ll come to that, but in short, the information

being revealed in this book for everyone to see has been

known by the few for thousands of years, hidden within the

inner sanctums of the global secret society network of which

the Roman Church (formerly the Church of Babylon) is a

central strand. American writer Gary A. David catalogues

alignments with Orion and endless depictions all over the

world including those throughout the Americas. See his book

Mirrors of Orion. The Hopi people in Arizona were focused on

Orion and so were the Aztecs and Mayans in Central

America. The ancient ruined city of Teotihuacá n near Mexico

City, with its pyramids and temple, is aligned with Orion’s

Belt (Fig 147). Teotihuacá n is believed to have been

established about 100 BC and is now a World Heritage Site.

Zulu high shaman Credo Mutwa told me many years ago

about the significance they attached to Orion and the Orion

red star that they call ‘Mpalalatsani’ or ‘The Scatterer of

Life’. This is described as a paradise world and ‘a red place

with red rocks, red earth, red sand and seas’. The star is

more widely known as the supergiant Betelgeuse

(pronounced beetle-juice), Orion’s second brightest star

which forms the right shoulder of the ‘hunter’, and is the

ninth brightest star in the night sky (Fig 148). Betelgeuse

(Arabic for ‘Hand of Orion’) has been calculated to be

between ten and twenty times the mass of our Sun, and if it

were at the centre of the solar system it would encompass

every planet as far out as Mars. It was the first star to have

its size measured and one of very few stars that appear

through the Hubble Space Telescope as a disc rather than a

point of light. Credo Mutwa’s ‘Necklace of the Mysteries’ (a

very heavy copper ring that rests on the shoulders) includes

a prominent depiction of Orion (Fig 149). He says the

necklace is at least 500 years old (he believes twice that)

and its symbols tell the story of the human race. They

include an ancient symbol of Saturn, ‘aliens’ and a ‘flying

saucer’

depicting

extraterrestrial

visitations

and

interbreeding with humans which I will come to in more

detail in the next two chapters. Credo said Zulu legends

contend that humans came from the stars and that the very

name Zulu means ‘People from the Stars’.



F igure 1 4 0 : Part of the hack into the simulation to specifically target

humanity

– Orion and its nebula, Saturn, the Moon, Earth and the human mind.

Other

bodies like Jupiter also play a part in this Matrix of mass control.





F igure 1 4 1 : Ancients were obsessed with Orion and the gods of

Orion.

F igure 1 4 2 : Some claim that the Giza pyramids were aligned with

the stars of

Orion’s Belt as they were in 10,450 BC.





F igure 1 4 3 : Orion and Sirius.

F igure 1 4 4 : The Orion Nebula – the nearest ‘stellar nursery’ to

Earth.

F igure 1 4 5 : Orion’s Trapezium star cluster.

F igure 1 4 6 : Is Michelangelo’s Creation of Adam a depiction of

humanity being

created in the Orion Nebula?





F igure 1 4 7 : Depictions of Orion’s Belt around the world.

F igure 1 4 8 : Supergiant red star Betelgeuse or the ‘Scatterer of Life’

in the

Orion Constellation.



F igure 1 4 9 : Orion was important to ancient societies all over the

world and

here it is depicted on the Zulu Necklace of the Mysteries which is

known to be

500 years old and could possibly be more than a thousand.

He relates Mpalalatsani or Betelgeuse, from which he said

humans were banished, to the biblical Garden of Eden and

he tells of Zulu legends that say the genetic manipulation of

humanity started there and continued inside the Moon and

later on Earth. Betelgeuse is apparently shrinking and some

strange things are happening generally in the simulation.

Inuit people, or ‘Eskimos’, are among many native groups

who say that the Sun is rising in a different place and stars

have changed position. Or Earth has. Once you realise we

are dealing with a simulation which can be changed such

claims can be seen in a new context. Orion’s brightest star

is Rigel, or Beta Orionis, a blue supergiant and the sixth

brightest star in the sky. There is speculation that the

common theme in human society of using red and blue in

politics and elsewhere (red pill/blue pill in The Matrix) is

somehow related to Betelgeuse and Rigel and also Bellatrix

(‘female warrior’), another blue star in Orion. Rigel is

estimated to be twice as hot as our Sun and 40,000 times

brighter, while Bellatrix is about 8.6 times the mass of the

Sun. Understanding the nature of Orion and its other

connections in the ‘circuit’, including Sirius, is central to

locating the source of the projected simulation.

‘Child of Orion’ – Saturn Saturn is known as the

‘god of a thousand names’ and prominently features in the

Archontic language of symbolism (Fig 150). Many familiar

symbols all around us are symbols of Saturn, and some

cross-reference with symbols used for Orion, which is

appropriate given that Saturn and Orion are expressions of

the same information source. The eye or ‘all-seeing eye’ is

one such symbol and you see this everywhere including on

the dollar bill, the reverse of the Great Seal of the United

States and the logo of Britain’s MI5 (Figs 151 and 152). To appreciate the role of Saturn we should return to the

question of why the ancients would be so focused on what is

today a speck of light in the apparently distant heavens (Fig

153). The answer is that Saturn wasn’t always where it is

now. Saturn was once the dominant body in the Earth sky

when there was a twin sun system involving the sun we see

today and the then ring-less Saturn. Painstaking work by

American researcher David Talbott uncovered this fact from

a stream of ancient accounts from every corner of the world.

He studied myths, legends and symbols attributed to Saturn

in multiple cultures and periods and found compelling

common themes. I highly recommend his video series that

you can find on YouTube entitled Discourses on an Alien Sky,

in which he connects all the legends and myths to reveal

what Saturn was and how everything suddenly changed.

See also his outstanding book, The Saturn Myth, if you can

get a copy. It is unfortunately out of print, but shouldn’t be.

Ancient symbols galore representing Saturn immediately

make sense once you know the story. Here is a brief

summary: Saturn was Earth’s closest sun in what the

ancients referred to as the Golden Age. Saturn was the

‘Steadfast One’, ‘motionless’ and the ‘light of the world’ and

moved in a straight-line sequence with Mars and Venus (Fig

154). The Popol Vuh, the creation story of the Quiche Maya

in what is today Guatemala in Central America, also

describes a fixed sun that is not the sun we see now. Saturn

appeared to humans looking from Earth as a giant eye with

Mars and Venus at its centre (Fig 155). The ancient symbol

of the sun, a circle with a dot in the middle, makes no sense

in relation to the sun we see today, but it is perfect when

compared with descriptions of Golden Age Saturn (Fig 156).

Ancient legends, symbols and rituals relating to Saturn were

so numerous – god of a thousand names – because it

dominated the Earth sky. Greek philosopher Plato called

Saturn ‘Helios’, the Sun god, and Greek historian Diodorus

of Sicily said the Chaldeans of Mesopotamia referred to

Saturn as ‘Helios’. This is a term later used for the sun we

know today, and the truth about Saturn was lost as names

and symbols were transferred. Diodorus said Saturn was

‘the most conspicuous of planets’ and early astronomers

called it ‘the Primeval Sun’. Quite understandably it has

been taken for granted that the theme of sun gods in the

ancient world were symbolic of today’s sun; but that is not

the case. At the very least the great majority were Saturn

sun gods, and they include the Babylonian Nimrod and Ra in

Egypt (Fig 157). Mithra, or Mithras in Rome and Persia on

which the later figure of ‘Jesus’ was based were also Saturn

gods. Roman Emperor Constantine, founder of modern

Christianity at the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD, worshipped

Sol Invictus or the ‘Unconquered Sun’ which I say was

Saturn. There is so much sun symbolism in the Biblical texts.

Saturn was the major god of Rome and they had an annual

festival known as Saturnalia in the run up to mid-winter

during which they exchanged presents, decorated trees and

hung holly. We call that festival today ‘Christmas’ when





much of humanity unconsciously worships Saturn and

celebrates

Santa,



an

anagram

of

Satan.

The

Demiurge/Satan and Saturn are connected as we shall see.

F igure 1 5 0 : Why were the ancients so obsessed with Saturn and

the same with

today’s ruling Elite?

F igure 1 5 1 : The classic pyramid and all-seeing eye symbol of the

Hidden Hand

behind human affairs seen here on the dollar bill.



F igure 1 5 2 : The pyramid and all-seeing eye on the logo of Britain’s

domestic

intelligence agency MI5.

F igure 1 5 3 : Why would the ancients have worshipped Saturn if it

was always

where it is today?





F igure 1 5 4 : Saturn as the ancients described it as seen from Earth

with Mars

and Venus.

F igure 1 5 5 : The all-seeing eye of Saturn.





F igure 1 5 6 : The ancient symbol of the ‘Sun’ perfectly portrays how

Saturn was

described with Mars and Venus at the centre.

F igure 1 5 7 : Saturn sun gods understandably mistaken for symbols

of the sun

we see today.

End of the world (nearly) Fifth century Roman

writer Theodosius said that Saturnalia marked the time

when ‘Saturn suddenly disappeared’, and this supports

David Talbott’s research from a long list of ancient

descriptions. I have detailed at length over the last more

than 20 years how ancient accounts abound with stories of

great geological catastrophes and ‘wars of the gods’ in the

heavens, and how these stories match Earth’s geological

and biological record. The Great Flood may be the most

famous catastrophe narrative, but the biblical version came

from much earlier descriptions and you find similar accounts

throughout the ancient world of the Earth being torn

asunder, even flipping over. Volcanoes erupted everywhere

– ‘mountains breathed fire’ – and there were colossal

earthquakes. Ancients described the ‘sea boiling’, the ‘sky

falling’, the rising and sinking of land and a gigantic wall of

water. Fantastic rips in the Earth’s surface formed what are

alleged to be natural phenomena like the Grand Canyon in

Arizona. Anyone who has stood at the edge looking down

must surely break into hysterical laughter, as I did, at official

claims that it was scored out by the Colorado River (Fig

158). Fish and other sea fossils can be found high up in

mountains today to confirm the scale of the upheaval. The

Himalayas, Alps and Andes only reached their present

height geologically recently. Fossilised intact trees have

been found – which meant this had to have happened in an

instant and could be explained, I am told, by the potential

pressure of the tidal wave recorded by the ancients (Fig

159). Artificial stone is created using very high pressure.

Immediate effects of water pressure could easily have

confused scientists in their perception of Earth’s

evolutionary ‘timeline’. A tidal wave Great Flood would

explain why botanist Nikolai Vavilov concluded in a study of

more than 50,000 globally-collected wild plants that they

originated from only eight different areas and all of them

mountainous. Greek philosopher Plato wrote that agriculture

began at high elevations after a colossal flood. More

evidence of instantaneous change comes with a freezing so

fast that mammoths have been found embedded in ice

while still standing up in the act of eating. Ancient accounts

describe the coming of the ice and how ice and rocks fell

from the sky. What if the ‘ice age’ did not happen as

officially claimed, but in an instant? Rocks known as

‘erratics’, which don’t match the rock types native to where

they are, can be found all over the world. ‘Erratics’ derives

from the Latin ‘to wander’. Some of these erratics are

enormous and weigh 15,000 tonnes or more. Scientists say

they were moved by glaciers, but what if they were really

carried by a tsunami of an almost unimaginable scale?

Countless stories record great landmasses, under names

like Atlantis and Lemuria/Mu, disappearing under the ocean

in the face of global cataclysm. Massive structures from lost

cities and civilisations have been discovered under seas

around the world (Fig 160). Many writers and researchers

have concluded that not only did the Earth go through

extraordinary upheavals, but so did the wider solar system.

Immanuel

Velikovsky

(1895-1979),

a

Russian-born

psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, writer and researcher, is the

best known of them. He produced a series of controversial

(of course) books that included Worlds in Collision, which he

published in 1950. He pointed out that ancient peoples did

not record the heavens in the form that we see them today

and this is especially true in relation to Venus. Mariner

exploration missions to Venus in the 1970s confirmed many

of Velikovsky’s contentions and its comet-like tail is one

example. Velikovsky described cataclysmic events involving

Venus and Mars that produced the devastated Mars we see

today and almost destroyed Earth. Nor was he talking about

millions of years ago, but only a few thousand. From this

conclusion, he rewrote the happenings and chronology of





ancient Egypt, Greece and Israel. Velikovsky said:

F igure 1 5 8 : The comparative sliver of water in the distance scored

out the

Grand Canyon? Yep, and a dinner plate can fly to Mars.

F igure 1 5 9 : A global tidal wave would have changed everything

including the



perception of an evolutionary ‘timeline’.

F igure 1 6 0 : Vast and incredible non-natural structures have been

found under

the sea all over the world.

Traditions about upheavals and catastrophes, found

among all peoples are generally discredited because of

the short-sighted belief that no forces could have shaped

the world in the past that are not at work also at the

present time, a belief that is the very foundation of

modern geology and of the theory of evolution.

We can’t explain it, so it could not have happened. The

usual ‘scientific’ fascism kicked in when Velikovsky

published his findings and blew their Stone Age minds.

Worlds in Collision was banned by some academic

institutions and the vitriol was so intense that it became

known as the Velikovsky Affair. Oh, he must have been

saying something right, then. Velikovsky wrote that Jupiter

and Saturn, the two biggest bodies in the solar system bar

the Sun, were central to this cosmic drama when they were

following a very different orbit from the ones we see today.

He also said that both were stars even though they are

considered by the official narrative to be planets. They are a

form of star and both produce significantly more heat than

they receive from the Sun. The gas giant Saturn is the only

planet in the solar system that is less dense than water and

thus would float. Velikovsky is not alone in saying that the

appearance and mass of Saturn and Jupiter would have

once been quite different to how they are today. He said

that Saturn exploded during a close pass with Jupiter and

became a fraction of the size that it had previously been – a

size that he believed would have then exceeded Jupiter.

Saturn was ‘banished’ by these effects to its distant

location. The Saturn-Jupiter conflict is captured in myth and

symbolic stories. The Greeks spoke of the god Zeus (Jupiter)

usurping the previous dominance of ‘his father’ Kronos

(Saturn). Velikovsky linked the Egyptian god Osiris to Saturn

and the goddess Isis to Jupiter. He said that ‘Khima’, the

source of the Great Flood according to the Babylonian

Talmud, was a name for Saturn, and that Mexican texts

describe how the ‘first world’ was destroyed by a universal

deluge caused by their name for Saturn. Velikovsky

suggests that the Saturn ‘nova’ explosion could have

projected vast amounts of water at the Earth creating the

oceans that we have today. The Atlantic Ocean was known

as the ‘sea of Kronos’ (Saturn). Velikovsky said the water

could have come directly or via clouds of hydrogen gas

combining with Earth’s oxygen, and that this ‘Saturn water’

could be the origin of the salt (sodium and chlorine) in the

oceans which science cannot explain from natural sources.

Zulu Shaman Credo Mutwa described to me how their

legends claim that Earth’s seas were once fresh water and

that the salt was the work of the gods. Saturn became

known as the god of vegetation or agriculture because of

the new plants that emerged amid the biological and

atmospheric changes that the deluge and upheavals

created, Velikovsky writes.

Roll ahead a few decades to the work of David Talbott and

his book Thunderbolts of the Gods, co-written with

Australian physicist Wallace Thornhill. Talbott was inspired

by Velikovsky’s trailblazing and while not agreeing with

every detail certainly supports his themes of world-changing

events involving Earth and the solar system, with Saturn at

the centre of what happened. His research into global myths

and legends about Saturn led him to accounts of the

catastrophe that brought an end to the Saturn ‘Golden Age’,

which was remembered as a period of bliss, abundance,

fairness and equality. What historians call the emergence of

human civilisation out of the Middle East about 6,000 years

ago was actually the re-emergence as humanity recovered

from these catastrophic happenings. The ‘cradle of

civilisation’ is said to have been Mesopotamia, in what is

now Iraq, but this wasn’t the start – it was part of the re-

start with a now much-changed human psyche as we shall

see. Talbott believes from his reading of the myths that a

disturbance caused Mars to move closer to Earth and

fantastic electrical plasma charges were exchanged

between them (Fig 161). This would explain the Mars

landscape today and why Mars has since been known as the

God of War. See Talbott’s DVD Remembering the End of the

World at www.thunderbolts.info. Electromagnetic distortion and chaos destroyed orbital stability and dispatched Venus,

Mars, Jupiter and Saturn in all directions. Mercury was also

relocated and the solar system suddenly looked very

different. Talbott and co-writer Thornhill are leading lights in

the Electric Universe movement, and to understand how the

catastrophe happened we need to grasp how the Universe

works electrically and electromagnetically. There is such a

focus on gravity as the force that holds everything together,

including planetary orbits; but it is really electromagnetism.

Physicist Thornhill points out that in Isaac Newton’s

mechanical/gravity model of the Universe more than two

objects are inherently unstable. The electrical force



meanwhile is about a thousand trillion, trillion, trillion times

more powerful than gravity. Velikovsky, too, said that

electromagnetic effects have an important role in celestial

mechanics. Once the electromagnetic balance and harmony

was overthrown we had inter-planetary musical chairs.

Physics and possibilities dramatically change when you

replace gravity-centred models of the Universe with those

based on electricity and electromagnetism. Planets like Mars

that now appear ‘dead’ or lifeless were inhabitable before

the catastrophe when atmospheres were transformed.

F igure 1 6 1 : Neil Hague’s portrayal of the electrical ‘war’ unleashed

between

Earth and Mars.

A change of mind

Saturn was once celebrated as the source of light and

abundance that gave humanity its fondly remembered

Golden Age. Today Saturn is known as ‘The Greater Malefic’

and Mars as the ‘Lesser Malefic’ and also as the planet of

war – references to their ‘battle’ in the heavens. Saturn is

worshipped by Satanists and esoterically/astrologically

represents control, judgement, restrictions, limitation, death

and decay. Inner-circle Satanists and secret society initiates

know Saturn as the Old Sun, Black Sun, Dark Sun, Dark Lord

and Lord of the Rings (Fig 162). The Black Sun was an occult

symbol of the Nazis and the symbol was depicted on the

floor of Wewelsburg Castle, the ‘spiritual’ headquarters of

Heinrich Himmler’s SS (Fig 163). Nazis in Ukraine today use

the same symbol. What the hell happened to bring about

Saturn’s

fantastic

perceptual

transformation?

Well,

something did – and big-time – after its ‘fall’. I mentioned

how Archontic awareness has sought to constantly distort

and invert the ‘bad copy’ that corresponds with part of the

Upper Aeon original reality. What I have described here was

a major moment in that quest in relation to Earth. Not only

Saturn ‘fell’, so did humanity. This is the ‘Fall of Man’ which

is not purely a biblical theme but globally universal. Fear

and terror from this cataclysmic experience was infused into

the human energy field/hologram and even more

significantly the heavens were ‘rewired’. We go back to the

foundations of astrology and how planets and stars are

information fields on the Cosmic Internet (simulation) and

exchange their energy (information) with the cosmic field.

This, in turn, influences the energetic and perceptual state

of everything interacting with those fields – i.e. including us.

The

perceptual/energetic

impact

of

the

complete

rearrangement of planets/dwarf suns closest to Earth cannot

be overstated. Everything changed because the human

mind dramatically changed as the perceptual cell door

slammed shut. Chaos in the perceived ‘outer’ world became

chaos in the human psyche because the two are constantly

interacting and profoundly connected. What affects one

affects the other. Compelling evidence points to a

transformation of the human psyche around 6,000 years

ago, or 4000 BC, when a ‘new psyche’ emerged and

expanded very quickly in evolutionary terms. Writer and

researcher Steve Taylor, a lecturer in psychology at Leeds

Beckett University, focuses on this period in his book, The

Fall: The Insanity of the Ego in Human History and the

Dawning of a New Era. Taylor says that before 6,000 years

ago there was no war or male-dominated society, no

massive inequality, class systems or organised religion as

we know them today. He could have added no Satanism or

human sacrifice. American cultural historian Riane Eisler

describes this period as ‘the great change – a change so

great, indeed, that nothing in all we know of human cultural

evolution is comparable in magnitude’. Taylor explains how

what he calls this ‘new psyche’ emerged out of the Middle

East and Asia (‘Saharasia’) around 6,000 years ago in the

wake of violent invasions by Indo-European and Semitic

peoples. Indo-European refers to a language group spoken

throughout most of Europe and as far as northern India.

They include languages and language groups known as

Italic, Slavic, Baltic, Hellenic, Celtic, Germanic, Indo-Iranian,

English, Spanish, German, Latin, Greek, Russian, Albanian,

Lithuanian, Armenian, Persian, Hindi and Hittite. Semitic is

defined as a group of languages in North Africa and the

Middle East that include Arabic, Hebrew, Assyrian, Aramean

and Phoenician. Contrary to what we are led to believe,

Arabic is overwhelmingly the major Semitic language and

the use of ‘Semitic’ and ‘antiSemitic’ with exclusive regard

to Jewish people is a misrepresentation of what the term

actually means. This ‘new psyche’, or perhaps fallen Saturn

psyche, went on to take over the world and I say this psyche

was also the result of extraterrestrial or ‘alien’ manipulation

of the human form of which more later. American

psychologist Julian Jaynes (1920-1997) proposed a similar

change in the human psyche in his book, The Origin of

Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind.

Jaynes’ term ‘bicameral’ refers to the concept of a relative

division between the left and right hemispheres of the brain

in which the right side communicated to the left side in

‘auditory hallucinations’ that were heard by the person as a

voice. He concludes that these were believed to be the

voices of the gods that must be obeyed, but also appeared

as people the person knew. Jaynes highlights the many

similarities between the bicameral ‘two-chambered’ mind

and the modern-day experiences of schizophrenics. He says

that from studying ancient texts and customs he estimates

the bicameral mind began to change thousands of years

ago to be replaced by the intellectual mind when the

‘voices’ stopped and the left side of the brain became

dominant. The same left-brain domination was a foundation

feature of Steve Taylor’s ‘new psyche’. Left-brain perception



sees everything as apart from everything else (the ‘twigs’)

and decodes dots and not pictures (the ‘forest’). A left-brain

disconnected from the picture-seeing right hemisphere is a

perceptual prison cell. This is vitally important to

understanding human society today in which left-brain

reality controls politics, science, academia, media, military,

banking and business – Mainstream Everything. The

consequences of this will be very clear a little further on.



F igure 1 6 2 : After the catastrophe the image of Saturn changed. It

became

known as the ‘Greater Malefic’, a focus of worship for Satanists

(Saturnists) and

the rings appeared.

F igure 1 6 3 : The Nazi Black Sun symbol for Saturn.

Lord of the Rings I have laid out the detailed

background to Saturn in Remember Who You Are and The

Perception Deception and I will summarise the information

here and add more to put it in context with the themes of

this book. Norman Bergrun is a highly distinguished

American engineer and research scientist who worked at

NASA’s Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, California,

and its predecessor, the National Advisory Committee for

Aeronautics, and was employed by Lockheed Martin on

classified aerospace projects. He said that he had top secret

security clearance for 30 years and during that period ‘I

signed my life away’. Bergrun pioneered a number of

developments in the fields of aircraft, missiles and rockets,

including ‘roll stability laws’, and won many awards

including the California Society of Professional Engineers

Archimedes Engineering Achievement Award (Fig 164).

Bergrun, who is now in his 90s, had his sense of reality

overturned by studying images of Saturn taken by the

Voyager and Cassini missions. Voyager 1 and 2 made their

closest approach to Saturn in 1980 and 1981, while Cassini-

Huygens arrived in 2004 and was destroyed in 2017 by

steering the craft to dive into Saturn’s atmosphere in what

NASA called the ‘Grand Finale’ (Fig 165). The official story is

that this was to avoid potential biological contamination of

Saturn’s moons as Cassini’s fuel ran out, but the dive had

the potential for allowing greater understanding of what is

going on with Saturn. Bergrun realised from Saturn images

that the rings were changing, sometimes in minutes, and he





concluded from a range of evidence that the rings were not

‘natural’. He went on to compile his findings in his book

Ringmakers of Saturn which is now out of print and

changing hands on the Internet for thousands of pounds.

The book was originally based on Voyager images, but his

knowledge was increased further when he saw those taken



by Cassini. Bergrun wrote:

F igure 1 6 4 : Norman Bergrun.

F igure 1 6 5 : These two missions have provided amazing knowledge

about

Saturn but not all of it via NASA.

Several years ago, a number of folks in the astronomy and

physics world began theorising that these rings had to be

much younger than the Universe, perhaps only about 100

million years old. But one pair of pictures shows a change

in five minutes! ...

... An impression is conveyed that latest reported

measurements purport to be the true ones when, in

reality, all might be quite nearly correct at time of

observation. General reluctance to accept variable ring-

system geometry occurs because of apparent failure to

identify a physical mechanism suitable for producing

recurrent change.

Here we go again – if we can’t explain it then it can’t be

happening. The arrogance and self-delusion is incredible.

Compelling evidence is before them, but they won’t go

there because their whole world view (and the one the

Hidden Hand wants humanity to believe) would be

demolished. Mainstream media reports about strange

happenings with Saturn’s rings conclude that ‘it’s a

mystery’. The Hidden Hand is quite happy for some things

to be revealed so long as they are considered a ‘mystery’

and never explained or put into context. One news report

said that Saturn’s most distant ‘F’ ring was twice as bright

and three times as wide between 2004 and 2009 than

during the Voyager fly-bys in the early 1980s. The ring also

increased in size from a width of about 200 kilometres to

about



580.

The

report

went

on:

F igure 1 6 6 : Norman Bergrun’s ‘electromagnetic vehicles’ on a

stream of NASA

photographs.

The great mystery of Saturn’s rings is how they formed

and why they are so stable. A simple model of orbital

dynamics in this kind of orbit should gradually spiral into

the planet. So the rings should long ago have smeared out

and disappeared. Instead, they are highly complex and





stable and contain other structures such as spokes and

braids. Nobody knows why.

F igure 1 6 7 : An absolutely massive ‘vehicle’ in the rings of Saturn.

F igure 1 6 8 : Electromagnetic vehicles pouring out plasma ‘exhaust’

to make

the rings.

F igure 1 6 9 : Saturn’s rings look like a DVD.

Well, perhaps, not exactly nobody. David Talbott’s

research into ancient myths and legends about Saturn did

not find any mention of rings, and as they would otherwise

have been at the centre of the myths they must therefore

be relatively recent and post-cataclysmic. As Bergrun

studied Saturn images and changing ring formations he

spotted another massive revelation. What he called

cylindrical ‘electromagnetic vehicles’ of immense size could

clearly be seen inside the rings (Figs 166 and 167). By

‘immense’ I mean two or three times bigger than Earth, and

if that sounds amazing consider that Earth is an absolute

titch compared with Saturn which is 95 times larger. Saturn

could encompass 764 Earths. I have seen other accounts of

these ‘vehicles’ being spotted near the Sun. ‘People have

got to be made to understand that those things are real’,

Bergrun said. He identified images in which the ‘vehicles’

were actually making the rings by spewing out plasma

‘exhaust’, and he calls them ‘the ringmakers’ as in the title

of his book (Fig 168). This makes sense of why the ancients did not mention rings around their Saturn sun, and supports

my contention for many years now that Saturn was hijacked

after the cataclysm and turned into an enormous

broadcasting system that is delivering information that the

human mind decodes as the fake reality or Matrix – a

simulation within a simulation that we perceive as the ‘real

world’. Saturn is part of the ‘hack’ into the original ‘bad

copy’ that also involves Orion, the Moon and probably much

else. Look at Saturn’s rings and then look at a CD or DVD

(Fig 169). The rings of Saturn are broadcasting at one level

the 2D projection that some scientists are now talking about

which we decode into 3D holographic illusion (Fig 170).

Before anyone screams nonsense – how could they do that?

– remember that we are dealing with a simulation and not a

solid ‘physical’ reality. Change the waveform information

construct and you change its holographic projection.

Norman Bergrun described what he believes to be the

nature of the cylindrical vehicles: ‘I say that [they are]

electromagnetic because I can identify streamline patterns



with respect to [them] that I knew were what we called

“potential lines” and that says it was electrical.’ They are

electrical/electromagnetic because they are messing with

the electrical/electromagnetic communication system of the

Cosmic Internet (simulation). This transformation of Saturn

would also explain how the much-loved sun of the Golden

Age became associated with control, judgement and

limitation, which is exactly the role of the new Saturn as a

broadcaster of the perceptual control ‘Matrix’. Saturn

became ‘possessed’, an expression of the Demiurgic

distortion and thus a focus for Archontic worship as the

Black Sun, Dark Sun and Dark Lord.

F igure 1 7 0 : The Saturn information ‘hack’ - the human fake reality

Matrix.

© www.neilhague.com

Saturn is also known as the ‘god of space and time’ (the

Matrix) and the ‘Lord of Karma’ (the recycling of souls

through reincarnation based on the energetic ‘algorithm’ or

law of cause and effect). The perception ‘hack’ created the

astrological prison/karma cycle that I described before.

There is no recorded mention of a belief in reincarnation

until less than 3,000 years ago and it only became

widespread much later. Kronos, the ancient Greek god

symbol for Saturn, was portrayed holding an hourglass

(time) and has become known as ‘Old Father Time’ (Figs 171

and 172). Gnostics said that Saturn is the outermost

planetary sphere or Archon of what I would call the Matrix

and beyond that was Leviathan, a snake swallowing its own

tail (Ouroboros) through which souls had to pass to reach

paradise (escape the Matrix). The esoteric concept of the

‘Ring-Pass-Not’ is based on the same theme. I say that what

is being described here is not an ‘evolutionary process’, but

a coldly designed entrapment of perception. Saturn rings

pervade the ‘space’ to Earth on unseen frequencies through

the unified scalar field and electromagnetic fields. NASA

discovered a ginormous new ring in 2009 visible in infrared

wavelengths between 3.7 and 7.4 million miles from Saturn

(Fig 173). The ring is big enough to encompass a billion

Earths. Norman Bergrun was featured by Express

newspapers in Britain in 2016 under the headline ‘Former

NASA whistleblower’s shock claim space agency hid PROOF

of UFOs orbiting Saturn’. The story said that Bergrun was

warning about a NASA cover-up and the fact that the

electromagnetic vehicles he wrote about in the 1980s were

now ‘proliferating at a shocking rate on the planet’s many

rings’. Numbers of what the report called ‘UFO crafts’ were

increasing at speed and had reached ‘critical levels’. They

were spreading to other planets including Uranus and

Jupiter, Bergrun said. He points out that Uranus didn’t have

rings but now it does and the same was happening with



Jupiter. Bergrun was quoted as saying that in his opinion the

craft were ‘living’ and capable of the essential functions of

biological systems like self-replication and self-maintenance.

I have been emphasising that ‘life’ and awareness doesn’t

have to take the form of two legs, two arms, a head and a

torso. And what if they are not so much ‘alien craft’ but an

expression of Archons or the inner electrical workings of the

simulation as its creators change the program?

F igure 1 7 1 : Kronos, the ancient Greek god of Saturn who is known

today as

Old Father Time.





F igure 1 7 2 : The symbolism of Kronos reflects the portrayal of

Saturn as the

god of time and space (the simulation).



F igure 1 7 3 : A gigantic new ring discovered around Saturn in 2009.

F igure 1 7 4 : A sound engineer saw immediately what this Saturn

ring depicted

– sound.

Rings of sound (information) I was sent an

image of a Saturn ring from a professional sound engineer

who said that he saw the same phenomena every day in his

work with music and sound technology. He said the ring was

definitely a manifestation of sound (Fig 174). This brings us

to something called ‘cymatics’ from a Greek word meaning

‘wave’. The principle has been known since ancient times

and involves sound of varying frequency being transmitted

across or through a medium of particles, paste or liquid. The



interaction produces a remarkable sight of the medium

transforming into geometrical patterns in response to the

sound (information). As the frequency changes so do the

patterns, and the higher the frequency the more complex

the pattern (Fig 175). Higher frequencies can carry more

energy (information) than lower frequencies like radio waves

and visible light. This frequency/sound/form relationship is a

two-way process – frequency is expressed as the pattern

and the pattern is expressed as the frequency. They are

different expressions of each other. You see the pattern, but

at the same time it is generating the sound (information)

which created the pattern and holds it in situ. And what

holds it in situ? STANDING WAVES. The sound frequency

creates standing waves of information which means the

form will remain in place forever so long as the frequency

remains and doesn’t change. I am saying that all form is

created in this way through information being held in

standing or stationary waves of frequency. Atomic

explosions can vaporise the body by disintegrating standing

wave stability and its information content. Put ‘cymatics’

into YouTube to see the process at work. We return to what

Albert

Einstein

said:

F igure 1 7 5 : Incredible patterns are created in cymatics by sound

frequencies

and when the frequency changes so does the pattern.





F igure 1 7 6 : The hexagon storm – the size of four Earths – at

Saturn’s northern

pole.

F igure 1 7 7 : Saturn’s eye storm at the southern pole.

Concerning matter, we have been all wrong. What we

have called matter is really energy, whose vibration has

been lowered to be perceptible to the senses. There is no

matter. There is only light and sound.

Planets (and dwarf stars) generate sound, and you can

see ‘cymatic’ manifestations of Saturn’s frequencies with

the ‘unexplainable’ permanent storms at both poles. A

monster storm at Saturn’s north pole takes the form of a

hexagon big enough to encompass four Earths, and there’s

another at the south pole that looks like a giant ‘eye’ (Figs

176 and 177). These pole storms are standing waves. They

are ‘permanent’ in the sense that they have been there

since they were first observed decades ago and they will

remain until Saturn’s frequencies significantly change and

with that the standing waves. The hexagon storm (which

NASA calls ‘bizarre’) completes a cycle in exact

synchronicity with the cycle of Saturn’s radio emissions (10

hours 39 minutes 24 seconds). There are apparently

multiple layers of the storm going down towards the interior.

NASA says that a system of clouds within the hexagon

appear to be ‘whipping around ... like cars on a racetrack’ at

hundreds of miles an hour and making 60 degrees turns to

pass through each segment of the hexagram. Nothing

similar with such a regular geometry had ever been seen on

any planet in the Solar System – because Saturn is not just

any planet. Saturn is a dwarf star that has been massively

tampered with. Bob Brown, team leader of the Cassini visual

and infrared mapping spectrometer at the University of

Arizona, said it was amazing to see such striking differences

between Saturn’s poles. But is it? Space.com reported in 2011 how radio wave signals differ in the northern and

southern hemispheres and this is what you would expect

with a permanent hexagon to the north and an ‘eye’ to the

south. They are manifestations of different sound

frequencies (Fig 178). Don Gurnett, leader of the Cassini



radio and plasma wave instrument team, said: These data

just go to show how weird Saturn is. We thought we

understood these radio wave patterns at gas giants, since

Jupiter was so straightforward. Without Cassini’s long stay,

scientists wouldn’t have understood that the radio

emissions from Saturn are so different.

F igure 1 7 8 : Symbolic Saturn by artist Joe Webb.

They are different because Saturn has been hijacked or

Archontically ‘possessed’ to become a generator of the fake

Matrix information source that humanity believes to be the

‘real world’. Kevin Baines, a member of Cassini’s visual and



infrared mapping spectrometer team at NASA’s Jet

Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, said of the

hexagon:

F igure 1 7 9 : Saturn’s hexagon storm has changed colour from blue

to gold over

four years.

This is a very strange feature, lying in a precise geometric

fashion with six nearly equally straight sides. We’ve never

seen anything like this on any other planet. Indeed,





Saturn’s thick atmosphere where circularly-shaped waves

and convective cells dominate is perhaps the last place

you’d expect to see such a six-sided geometric figure, yet

there it is.



F igure 1 8 0 : The six-pointed hexagram or ‘Star of David’ is a symbol

of Saturn.

F igure 1 8 1 : Black cubes are symbols of Saturn.

Mainstream science will never understand what Saturn is

(and therefore solve its ‘mysteries’) because there are too

many no-go areas. These include the findings of Norman

Bergrun and the frequency, information and consciousness

nature of everything in our reality. NASA announced in 2016

that the Saturn hexagon had changed colour from blue to

gold over the previous four years (Fig 179). Colours are

different frequencies and changes in Saturn’s frequency

patterns will affect the colour. This is happening at the same

time, according to Norman Bergrun, that electromagnetic



vehicles are accumulating within Saturn’s rings on a scale

he has never seen before. Is this really just a coincidence?

Scientists speculate that the colour change may have been

due to Saturn approaching its northern pole ‘summer

solstice’ in a Saturn year equivalent to nearly 30 Earth

years, but if the colour changes the frequency has changed.

Sound and frequency are the foundation of everything

within our reality.

F igure 1 8 2 : A cube is a hexagon in 3D.



F igure 1 8 3 : Energetically a hexagon is a hexagram is a cube.

F igure 1 8 4 : The ‘cube’ at Saturn’s north pole.

Symbols and sound

Two of the prime ancient symbols for Saturn are the six-

pointed star (hexagram/‘Star of David’) and the cube,

especially the black cube (Figs 180 and 181). These can also

be expressed in terms of frequency/sound as a hexagon. You

see in Figure 182 two versions of the same image, but look

at them from different perspectives and they don’t look the

same. Observe the one on the left as if it is flat and you see

a hexagon; but now look at the one on the right in three

dimensions and it becomes a cube. Symbols and shapes are

visual representations of sound/frequency states, and the

hexagon, hexagram and cube represent (and therefore

broadcast) the sound/information of Saturn (Figs 183).

Saturn’s hexagram can therefore be expressed as a cube

(Fig 184). I was watching a YouTube video of constantly

changing sound pounding through a liquid medium creating

geometrical images. They were changing so fast as the

sound frequency changed that I had to keep freezing the

frame to see what shapes were being formed. Among them I

found perfect hexagons and hexagrams (Figs 185 and 186).

Chinese philosopher Confucius said that signs and symbols

run the world, not words and laws, and this is because they

are waveform standing wave fields of information (Figs 187

and 188). I would add to the Confucius quote that actually

letters and words are also symbols that transmit information

and frequencies. Official communications and texts are

carefully worded for this reason. Symbols are constantly

affecting the conscious and especially the subconscious

mind by transferring information, and this is the whole

foundation of the hidden (occult) language of symbolism

used by secret societies, Satanism and the Archontic Hidden

Hand behind world events. Information encoded in symbols

enters through the sight senses in ways that sound within

the frequency range of human hearing cannot. When you

hear something, you are consciously aware of it, but that is

not the case with almost all that we ‘see’. Our brain

constructs a sense of reality from just 40 visual sensations

per second out of 11 million and the other 11 million minus

40 are absorbed by the subconscious (Fig 189). Sight senses

are the perfect way to plant information, concepts, and

perceptions into the subconscious while bypassing the

conscious mind which has no idea this is happening. These

planted perceptions then filter through to conscious

awareness as what the person believes to be their own

thoughts and decisions (Fig 190). Gotcha! Saturn symbols all

around us are downloading Saturn information (frequencies)

to the subconscious all day, every day and locking human

perception into the Saturn frequency band – the Matrix. And

Saturn symbols are all around us. The ubiquitous all-seeing

eye, which has been associated with Saturn but has other

meanings, appears to an extraordinary extent in animated

cartoons and movies for children because it represents a

frequency/information

state

that

speaks

to

their

subconscious (Fig 191). The young are a prime target for

programming because they will the adults when the

Archontic Hidden Hand wants its full-blown tyranny in place.

Religion is ablaze with symbols and all of them are talking to

the human subconscious, with followers and advocates most

powerfully affected. This saying is profoundly accurate:

‘Energy flows where attention goes.’ Attention is the key to

everything including how focus of attention triggers the

decoding process that transforms waveform information into

holographic reality. I explained earlier how tarot cards

electromagnetically represent information and the concepts





they symbolise, and this is the case with all symbols. If a

symbol represents Saturn then its energetic field will

resonate to the Saturn frequency. Focus of attention on that

symbol – even subconsciously through the 11 million minus

40 – will attach you to that frequency (Fig 192). Once this

connection has been made your energy can be trawled by

the frequency that the image symbolises, be it a planet or



other nonhuman entity. Our energy can be absorbed by a

planetary body 746 million miles away? There is no space as

there is no time and so no distance or ‘miles’. There is only

here and now. Everything else is decoded illusion. Religions

are covert conduits for the focused attention through

worship of the Archons, Saturn, Orion, etc. and attention

means energetic connection unless we consciously reject it.

F igure 1 8 5 : A perfect hexagon created purely by a sound

frequency.

F igure 1 8 6 : A hexagram created by sound.



F igure 1 8 7 : Form, symbols and geometrical patterns are all

expressions of

standing wave frequencies. The frequency is the form and the form is

the

frequency – they are two versions of the same information.

F igure 1 8 8 : Geometrical shapes are holographic manifestations of

frequency

information states.





F igure 1 8 9 : Only the tiniest fraction of visual information is

processed by the

conscious mind. The rest is absorbed by the subconscious.



F igure 1 9 0 : Once information is planted in the subconscious it

filters through

to the conscious mind as what people believe to be their own

thoughts and

perceptions.



F igure 1 9 1 : All of these images from children’s cartoons and

animations

include the all-seeing eye or pyramid and all-seeing eye.

F igure 1 9 2 : Focus on a symbol connects you to the frequency the

symbol

represents whatever that may be.

© www.neilhague.com

What’s with the cube?

An ancient symbol of Saturn is the black cube and

interestingly the physicist Silas Beane, a prominent

researcher into our simulated reality, has suggested that the

‘Matrix’ could well be based on a lattice of cubes (Fig 193).

His Bonn University team found that cosmic rays align with

a specific pattern that takes the form of cubes, and if

Saturn/Orion was broadcasting a Matrix information

blueprint or lattice based on cubes, would cosmic rays not

align with that when they entered its frequency construct?

Some have suggested that our reality is a hypercube which

appears as a cube within a cube (Fig 194). If you watch an

animation of a hypercube you will see the small cube

becoming the big cube becoming the small cube and this is

used by the Elite and Satanists (sorry, I repeat myself) to

symbolise the human prison with no way out (there is). The

words ‘hypercube explanation’ will take you to a good

YouTube video. Hypercubes are a major symbol used by the

deepest levels of the ‘occult’ (‘hidden’) networks to

represent ‘Hell’. I have said before that we are not going to

‘Hell’. We live in it, or rather one level of it. A cube is an

extension of a square or ‘hypersquare’ and a hypercube is

an extension of the cube. We saw this one-is-an-expression-

or-extension-of-the-other with the example of the two-

dimensional hexagon and the three-dimensional cube being



separated only by the perception of the viewer. A cube has

three dimensions while the hypercube has four, but we can

only perceive three because that is the limit of the human

visual decoding system. Significantly, the smaller cube in

the middle of the bigger one is created by the projection of

a shadow in an illusion created by the light source – a

shadow of a square within a square. The smaller cube is a

shadow projection of the bigger cube and that is what we

are seeing in our ‘world’ – a shadow projection of another

reality as the Gnostic texts and Plato describe. Hypercubes



are symbolised by Satanists and the Hidden Hand as a

double square with one laid over the other to form eight

points. This is used profusely by organisations related to

control (Fig 195). Extend the flat double square into 3D and

it is a double cube. I have been aware of this since the

1990s

when

I

wrote,

in

The

Biggest

Secret:





F igure 1 9 3 : What an amazing ‘coincidence’ that research has

suggested the

simulation is constructed as a lattice of cubes.

F igure 1 9 4 : A hypercube with the smaller cube as a reflection of the

inner

cube.





F igure 1 9 5 : The ‘flat’ hypercube symbol often used by

organisations related to

law and control.

F igure 1 9 6 : The Saturn cube in Mecca, the Kaaba (‘cube’).

F igure 1 9 7 : Worshippers praying in concentric circles to the black

cube of

Saturn.

F igure 1 9 8 : A black cube ritual in the Jewish religion.

The double square, one square on top of another in any

form, is more secret society symbolism. In the secret

language of symbolism one square on top of another

means control of all that is right and all that is wrong, all

that is just and all that is unjust, all that is negative and all

that is positive. In other words, ‘We control everything’.

Freemasons are said to be ‘on the square’ and have black

and white squares on their temple floors as do many

churches and cathedrals. Freemasonry’s inner circle is well

aware that the ‘Craft’ is serving the Archontic force within

human society. America was established by the Europe-

based Elite through secret societies like the Freemasons and

so urban America is arranged in squares known as ‘blocks’.

When you live in blocks you are in the midst of the energy

created and represented by blocks or squares which are at

other levels energetically hexagons, which are energetically

cubes, which are energetically hypercubes. Now, where is

the world’s most famous black cube? Mecca – Islam’s holy of

holies known as the Kaaba (Fig 196). Kaaba means cube and

represents Saturn. Worshippers even kneel to the ‘Kaaba

stone’ or ‘Black Stone’ inside the cube while arranged in

concentric circles (Fig 197). They believe they are

worshipping ‘Allah’, but who or what is Allah? Five times a

day orthodox Muslims get on their knees to ‘face Mecca’

wherever they are in the world and focus their attention on

the Kaaba. Energy flows where attention goes. Major

religions may appear to be in opposition, but they are

founded on the same basic themes and their differences are

mostly illusory. Jewish worshippers put a black cube on their

head called a Tefillin while the Jewish god of Saturn is ‘El’

and his symbol is ... the black cube (Fig 198 and 199). This is the origin of Is-ra-EL and also El and the Elohim

(Demiurge and Archons) in the Old Testament, which in

Genesis describes the Demiurge creating the simulation –

‘Let there be [luminous fire] Light’ (Fig 200). We also have

ang-ELs, archangELs and fallen ang-ELs served by the

‘human’ EL-ite and their agents who take power in rigged

ELections. We also have Elysium where the Greeks and

Romans believed those ‘heroes’ who served the EL-ite were

taken after death to live in paradise. Elysium is a variant on

the Islamic theme of going to paradise to be served after

death by virgins if you serve the interests of Allah which

some tragically believe includes committing mass murder

by suicide bomb. I will refer from here on to the El-ite to

emphasise the connection with Saturn of the ruling and

manipulating Archontic network of satanic rings and secret

societies within human society. Isra-EL is the creation and

fiefdom of the Archontic House of Rothschild whose very

name comes from another frontline symbol for Saturn, the

six-pointed star or hexagram. This is called the Star of David

and claimed to be an exclusively Jewish symbol, but it’s not.

Hexagrams as a symbol of Saturn are global and can be

seen in ancient Mesopotamian depictions and all over Asia

(Figs 201 and 202). They are also central to Freemasonry and found in Christianity as well as Judaism (Figs 203, 204

and 205). Family networks today known as Rothschild were

a Middle Ages occult family called Bauer until they changed

the name to Rothschild as their banking dynasty (which

became today’s global financial system) began to emerge in

the 18th century out of Frankfurt, Germany. The name-

change was made by dynasty founder Mayer Amschel

Bauer, who took the name Rothschild from the red

hexagram displayed on his house (Fig 206). Rothschild

comes from the German ‘Rot’ (Red) and ‘Schild’ (Sign). The

Archontic Rothschilds would go on to establish Zionism by

rewriting ‘history’ (see The Perception Deception) which led

to the founding of Israel after World War II. Israel is the Land

of Rothschild and the Israeli flag features the ancient symbol

of Saturn from which the very name Rothschild originates

(Fig 207). I wrote earlier about the power of the heart or

heart vortex/chakra which the Archontic conspiracy

constantly works to close. The symbol used for the heart

chakra is ... the hexagram (Fig 208). This is way too

synchronistic to be dismissed as coincidence. Gnostic Nag

Hammadi texts say: ‘And they [the Archons] closed [human]

hearts, and they hardened themselves through the hardness

of the counterfeit spirit until now.’ What if the symbol of the

heart vortex as a symbol of Saturn is a scam to close hearts





and not to open them? Focus attention of your heart chakra

on the heartless symbol of Saturn and what do you think will

happen? A cross and ‘tail’ that forms the astrological symbol

of Saturn was employed by the Rothschilds to form the

hammer and sickle on the flag of the Soviet Union (Fig 209).

This was another creation of the Rothschilds via their Zionist

gofers Lenin, Trotsky and many others. See ... And The Truth

Shall Set You Free for the detailed background. Baphomet,



or the Goat of Mendes, is a prominent satanic composite

symbol of the negative force and a modification of the god

Pan which represents Saturn (Figs 210 and 211). Manly P.

Hall, one of the most famous Freemasonic historians, wrote

in

Secret

Teachings

of

All

Ages:

F igure 1 9 9 : The same theme wherever you look.



F igure 2 0 0 : Rank and file religious advocates the world over have

no idea

where their religions really come from and what they are really

worshipping.

F igure 2 0 1 : Ancient Mesopotamian symbol of Saturn.

F igure 2 0 2 : The Star of David is not a symbol exclusive to Judaism

but a

universal symbol of Saturn. All these images are from Asia.





F igure 2 0 3 : Saturn as a six-pointed star in the Mother Lodge of

Freemasonry in

London.

F igure 2 0 4 : The Saturn symbol in Christianity.





F igure 2 0 5 : The hexagram is of course central to the Jewish

religion.

F igure 2 0 6 : The red hexagram from which the name Rothschild

originated.





F igure 2 0 7 : The Rothschilds transferred their family symbol to the

flag of Israel

after they had manipulated and bombed the state into existence in

1948.

F igure 2 0 8 : The six-pointed star or hexagram is the esoteric symbol

for the

heart vortex or chakra.





F igure 2 0 9 : Hammer and sickle symbol of the Rothschild-created

Soviet Union

which is an adaption of the astrological symbol of Saturn.

F igure 2 1 0 : Goat-god Pan is a symbol of Saturn with reference to

the Saturn

‘sign’ of Capricorn.



F igure 2 1 1 : Saturn as the satanic symbol of Baphomet.

Pan was a composite creature, the upper part – with the

exception of his horns – being human, and the lower part

in the form of a goat ... the god himself is a symbol of

Saturn because this planet is enthroned in Capricorn,

whose emblem is the goat.

Goats are used to symbolise Saturn in many movies,

television programmes and music videos and in 2016 an

obvious representation of Baphomet played the central role

in a bizarre satanic-like ceremony to open the 35-mile

Gotthard Base railway tunnel (the world’s longest) through

the Swiss Alps (Fig 212). A British newspaper called the

ritual ‘one of the most bizarre opening ceremonies in

history’ and the strange goings-on were attended by

European leaders including Germany’s Chancellor Angela

Merkel, President Francois Hollande of France and Italian

Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. The occult ritual (for that is

what it was) featured a baby with feathered white wings and

an oversized head which one commentator described as ‘a

topless creepy-looking bird’. There were semi-naked

dancers, a montage of [all-seeing] eyes and [fallen] angels

appearing from the abyss/eye of Saturn. A goat man

(Saturn/Pan/Baphomet) was the star of the show. He died

and was then resurrected, worshipped and crowned ‘king of

the world’. Type the words ‘satanic opening ceremony for

Gotthard Base Tunnel’ into a search engine and you will see

what I mean. I posted images from the ritual on Facebook

but they were taken down because they ‘breached



guidelines’. Yet the same images were broadcast on

television stations all over the world with some, including

the BBC, showing the ritual live. As one observer said, if

they will do this in public what are they doing in private?

Well, plenty worse as we shall see. The Grim Reaper is

another Saturn symbol and relates to its esoteric association

with death and the scythe is in keeping with Saturn’s

ancient role as the god of vegetation and agriculture (Fig

213). Kronos, the Greek personification of Saturn, also holds

a scythe and the same symbolism was encoded with the

sickle of the Soviet Union.





F igure 2 1 2 : Baphomet or the Goat of Mendes played the central

role in the

bizarre ritual that opened the Gotthard Base railway tunnel.

F igure 2 1 3 : The Grim Reaper is Saturn and reflects its association

with death.



F igure 2 1 4 : The Magic Square of Saturn.

F igure 2 1 5 : All the sixies.

Numbers game

Saturn symbolism goes deep into numerology and includes

the Magic Square of Saturn which consists of numbers

adding up to 15 in all directions (Fig 214). In numerology,

you keep adding the digits until there is a single number

and so, numerologically, 15 is really 6. The Magic Square of

Saturn (also used in Freemasonry) therefore adds up along

all sides to 666 – the Biblical ‘Number of the Beast’ in the

Book of Revelation. Hexagons and hexagrams equate to 666

(Fig 215). Ancient sun worship in places such as Babylon

were associated with the number 666, and once you realise

they were worshipping the Saturn sun you can see why.

Numbers are digital expressions of frequencies and 666

represents the Saturn (Matrix) frequency. In occult law, all

numbers comprise 1 through 9. Zero means what it says –

nothing. 90,000 or 900,000 in numerology is energetically

merely 9. Mark Passio, a former member of the Church of

Satan in the United States, has been exposing the dark

occult since he left. He says that Satanists consider 9 to be

‘Satan’s number’ and that of the ego or Phantom Self as I

call it. In other words the energetic state of programmed

awareness in which the Archontic El-ite seek to entrap

humanity is represented numerologically by 9. Passio points

out that adding all base single digit numbers to 9 brings

every number back to itself numerologically (energetically).

For example: 1 + 9 = 10 = 1 ... through to ... 9 + 9 = 18 = 9.

Passio says that this symbolises how the state of

ego/Phantom Self changes nothing. Multiplication of 9 with

single digits always equals 9 numerologically and so

Satanists refer to 9 as the number that always comes back

to itself: 9 x 1 = 9 ... through to ... 9 x 9 = 81 = 9. Passio

says this reveals that the multiplication of ego always leads

to still more ego and never, as I would put it, to more

expanded awareness. When Max Tegmark at MIT says



everything is a bunch of numbers he is right, but they

represent states of frequency and consciousness. By

manipulating numbers at the digital level of our reality the

El-ite are able to manipulate frequency and consciousness.

Anyone who thinks numbers don’t matter or that sequences

are just coincidence has completely and utterly lost the plot

with regard to human enslavement. Numerology in the

Saturn Magic Square and other Saturn symbols are digital

representations of Saturn’s Archontic frequency. Freemasons

worship Saturn and the Archontic vibration although the

vast majority are so misled about what the ‘Craft’ really

represents that they have no idea this is so. I have asked

Freemasons if they know what their symbols mean. They

either look bewildered and say the knowledge is lost in

antiquity or say they symbolise the Great Architect.





Actually, they do, but not the Architect as the lower ranks

believe it to be. Most Freemasons are being unknowingly

locked into the Saturn/Demiurgic frequency through their

rituals and ceremonies. I have been told again and again

how initiates join the lodge with one personality and then

develop a far more malevolent or empathy-deleted one. Not

everyone falls for that, but large numbers do.

F igure 2 1 6 : Twin pillars at the entrance to the ‘Temple of Solomon’

(Saturn).

F igure 2 1 7 : The Holy of Holies in Solomon’s Temple is described as

a cube.

F igure 2 1 8 : The New ‘cube’ Jerusalem.

Freemasons working as frequency-enslaved agents of the

Saturn/Demiurgic frequency can be found throughout

politics, the judiciary and the legal profession, police, media,

banking and corporations as they (mostly unknowingly)

serve the Hidden Hand or El-ite which serve the Archontic

force. Freemasonry is based on the Kabbalah, the Jewish

esoteric holy book, and that is obvious when you look at

symbolism. The Old Testament ‘Temple of Solomon’ is

described as having twin pillars at the entrance and the

same symbols feature in Freemasonic temples as the pillars

of Jachin and Boaz (Fig 216). There is no way with the

symbolism-obsessed El-ite that the twin pillars or twin

towers targeted on 9/11 were not related to this symbolism

given that the same El-ite was behind those attacks. The





Holy of Holies within Solomon’s Temple, the inner sanctuary

‘where God dwelt’, is described as a perfect cube of 20

cubits by 20 cubits by 20 cubits and all three syllables of

Sol-Om-On mean the sun – the Saturn sun (Fig 217). The

‘New Jerusalem’ in the Book of Revelation is also portrayed

in terms of a cube (Fig 218). New Jerusalem is code for

completing the agenda for the total control of human

society and the human mind. Hexagrams are known as the

Seal of Solomon. They are at the centre of the Jewish





religion with its holy day of Saturday (Saturn-day) and

widely used by Freemasonry.

F igure 2 1 9 : The Magic Square of Saturn becomes the Sigil of

Saturn.

F igure 2 2 0 : The Sigil of Saturn becomes ...

F igure 2 2 1 : ... the classic symbol of Freemasonry ...

F igure 2 2 2 : ... and the symbol of Balmoral, the Scottish home of the

British



‘royal’ family.

Kabballah Judaism and Freemasonry are fundamentally

connected. Freemasonic temples are a symbolic Solomon’s

Temple and all are energetically connected to Saturn. I have

managed to get into three Freemason temples. One was on

an open day and two when I just walked in and there was no

one around to stop me. On all three occasions the Saturnic

frequency (which you can learn to recognise) dominated the

energetic atmosphere. An obsession with ritual and symbols

comes from the frequency influence of Saturn. The Magic

Square of Saturn is the foundation of the Sigil of Saturn

which is also known as the Sigil of Solomon. From this

symbol comes the best-known symbol of Freemasonry. The

Sigil is created by drawing lines in number order on the

Magic Square – 1 to 2 to 3 etc. (Fig 219). Turn the resulting symbol upright and you get the classic compass symbol of

Freemasonry which once again reflects the frequency of

Saturn (Figs 220 and 221). Now look at the Sigil of Saturn symbol used by Balmoral, the Scottish castle owned by the

British royal family – who are one of the Archontic/Saturnic

bloodlines that I will be exposing (Fig 222). I have visited

royal palaces open to the public and all have the same

Saturnic/Satanic/Freemasonic vibration. The same is true of

most cathedrals and churches. They are called the ‘House of

the Lord’ and they are – the ‘Lord Archon’ as expressed via

Saturn.

F igure 2 2 3 : Moloch/Molech, the 40-foot stone focus of worship at

Bohemian

Grove.





F igure 2 2 4 : Moloch was Baal – the Saturn sun god.

F igure 2 2 5 : An owl sitting on a pyramid can be clearly seen in the

road system

around the Capitol Building in Washington DC.

Owl of Saturn

Bohemian Grove in Sonoma County, California, is another

centre for El-ite Saturn/Demiurge worship. The Grove is

about 75 miles north of San Francisco and consists of 2,700

acres of redwood forest where the rich and famous perform

their rituals to Saturn and the Demiurgic force or distortion

that Saturn represents and broadcasts. Once again most

rank-and-file ‘Grovers’ won’t know this because they don’t

understand the significance of the rituals. Attendees at the

annual ‘summer camp’ include the Rothschilds, Rockefellers

and Bush family (all of whom will know) and a Who’s Who of

the United States and the wider world from politics, banking,

corporations, media and ‘entertainment’. The main

collective rituals are focused on a 40-foot stone owl which

represents the ancient satanic ‘god’ Moloch/Molech (the

Prince of Hell in demonology and symbol of Saturn) to whom

children were sacrificed in fire (Fig 223). The Bible mentions

this and Jeremiah 32:35 says: ‘They built the high places of

Baal that are in the valley of Ben-hinnom to cause their sons

and their daughters to pass through the fire to Molech.’

Celtic ritual involving the Wicker Man set ablaze with

children inside is a version of this, and Phoenicians also

sacrificed children in fire to Saturn. Human sacrifice was

once performed openly, but now it happens in secret.

Bohemian Grove’s opening ceremony is called Cremation of

Care and involves a fire under the owl and a mock (they

say) human sacrifice. These are the people running our

world, by the way, on behalf of the Archontic distortion.

Other sick and certainly sacrificial rituals go on in forests at

the Grove but involving only the inner circle. If you put

Bohemian Grove into YouTube you’ll see some secretly

filmed videos. Moloch was considered a god of the Saturn

sun by Canaanites/Ammonites and was referred to as Baal

(‘Lord’) Moloch (Fig 224). The ‘sun god’ Baal – ‘The Lord’ – is

another version of Saturn and known in Babylon as Nimrod.

Bohemian Grove’s worship of the Moloch owl is the worship

of the Demiurgic Saturn. Hexagrams are known as the Star

of Moloch and Star of Remphan (the Egyptian name for

Saturn). More than 20 years ago when I first came across

the Bohemian Grove owl I noticed that an owl is encoded in

the road layout around the Capitol Building in Washington

DC (Fig 225). Note how the home of US politics sits in the belly of the owl (Saturn/Demiurge). I could not imagine more

appropriate symbolism. Former Satanist Mark Passio says

that Baal, Bill, Bull, Bail, Ball, Bel, Belial etc. have the same

meaning and originate from the letters BL. The B and L are

what are important and the letters around them less so.

Their sound matters even more because phonetically it

carries the vibration/frequency – for example, Bill and Ba-

byl-on are the same frequency. Moloch is also symbolised as

a bull – a ‘bull-headed colossus’. Biblical worship of the

‘Golden Calf’ relates to the same symbolism and so we have

the charging bull as the symbol of Wall Street (Fig 226).

They charge you for everything there. Wall Street is indeed

a ‘bull market’ and founded on bullshit. Saturn symbols are

used in corporate logos to a far greater extent than

statistically likely and Saturn’s designated esoteric colour of

black can be seen throughout the ‘The System’ in the

judiciary, higher education and the church (Figs 227 and

228). Astrologically and esoterically Saturn represents

banking, politics and institutions of state at all levels,

corporations, law, the court system and science. This is the

entire control system, basically, and astrologically and

esoterically

means

energetically

(control

of

information/perception). All this Saturn symbolism and the

transmissions from Saturn itself deluge human reality with

the Saturnic (Orion/Demiurgic) frequency to trap perception

in the Archontic illusion or simulation. Religions, secret

societies

and

Satanists

are

worshipping

the

Saturn/Demiurge

frequency.

Saturn-worshipping

Freemasonry is found widely in politics, the judiciary and the

law, police, media, banking and corporations with their

Saturn symbolism, corporate logos and for many a common

theme of black. Saturn is associated with time, death, fear,

matter, structure, obedience, poverty and restriction. One

other point about symbolism is the way that symbols are

distorted to represent the Archontic distortion and this

includes the distorted square or ‘trapezoid’ (Fig 229).

Former Satanist Mark Passio says the trapezoid is known as

the ‘soul trap’. Satanists and the El-ite distort and invert

symbols to represent the imbalance they seek to impose on

human consciousness to reflect the Demiurgic inversion and

distortion. Inverted pentagrams and crosses are obvious

examples. We have seen the trapezoid before on the dollar

bill and the reverse of the Great Seal of the United States,

with the bricks in the trapezoid pyramid representing the

density within which human consciousness is held while the

all-seeing eye looks on from the top (Fig 230). All distorted

and inverted symbols represent the frequency of ignorance,

perception entrapment and control. They can be identified





in the street-plan of Washington DC and they add to the

distorted energy that engulfs the American capital and

centre of (official) government (Figs 231 and 232). The conspiracy is entirely founded on the distortion and

inversion of energy (consciousness) to reflect and impose

the Archontic distortion and inversion.

F igure 2 2 6 : Moloch/Saturn as the symbol of Wall Street.





F igure 2 2 7 : Saturn symbolism is used by major companies far

beyond

statistical chance.





F igure 2 2 8 : Black, the esoteric colour of Saturn, is the colour of

‘The System’.

F igure 2 2 9 : The Trapezoid.

F igure 2 3 0 : The Trapezoid within the all-seeing eye symbol.



F igure 2 3 1 : Inverted and distorted pentagram in the Washington

DC street

plan with the White House at the bottom.

F igure 2 3 2 : The same theme with Capitol Hill at the bottom.

F igure 2 3 3 : CERN’s Large Hadron Collider.

F igure 2 3 4 : The 17-mile underground ring at CERN.

Matter of ConCERN

I have said in previous books that the Large Hadron Collider,

the world’s most powerful particle accelerator at the

European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in

Switzerland, is in the process of creating portals into other

realities. I say this includes a connection with Saturn

through which energies and entities come into our reality

through a Saturn stargate or portal to other dimensions (Fig

233). The Collider is a ring tunnel or tube of

superconducting magnets that extends for 17 miles

hundreds of feet below ground across the Swiss-French

border (Fig 234). This is known as a synchrotron which is

defined as ‘an accelerator in which charged particles are

accelerated around a fixed circular path by an electric field

and held to the path by an increasing magnetic field’. The

CERN numbers are phenomenal and being increased in

volume and power. Proton particles (actually waves in truth)

moving at almost the speed of light in both directions crash

into each other with a proton making 11,245 circuits of the

ring every second. This can generate temperatures more

than 100,000 times hotter than what is claimed for inside

the Sun and the superconducting magnets are 100,000

times more powerful than the gravitational pull of Earth.

Imagine what all this is doing in distorting and changing the

electromagnetic field over a wide area. We are told that the

Collider was built at a cost of $13.25 billion (and the rest) to

‘test the predictions of different theories of particle physics

and seek to find the so-called Higgs particle or Higgs boson

and confirm the accuracy of the Standard Model of Physics’.

I am sure that through compartmentalisation the great

majority of the ten thousand scientists and engineers

involved from more than 100 countries will believe that the

Higgs boson is the central reason for spending those

multiple billions to bring them all together, but for me that

is extreme naï vety. The real reason is to open a portal with

Saturn and probably elsewhere. CERN stands on a site once

believed to be a gateway to the underworld and the Romans

dedicated the area to the demonic god ‘Apollyon’ (‘the

Destroyer’) which is known as Abaddon in Hebrew and Shiva

in Asia. Apollyon/Abaddon is the biblical ruler of the Abyss

and king of an ‘army of locusts’. The Book of Revelation

describes the Abyss as a great smoking pit and predicts that

this will open to free a horde of demonic locusts. This was

the real symbolism behind the bizarre opening ceremony at

the Gotthard Base railway tunnel in Switzerland, the country

in which CERN is located. Sergio Bertolucci, Director for

Research and Scientific Computing at CERN, said the Hadron

Collider could discover ‘unknown unknowns’ like ‘an extra

dimension’ and ‘out of this door might come something, or

we might send something through it.’ Or both. There is a

statue at CERN of the Vedic god Lord Shiva (Lord Archon,

Apollyon/Abaddon) dancing within a ring (Fig 235). In Vedic

Astrology Shiva is represented by Saturn. He is (like Saturn)

the god of death and time and his dance symbolises the

primordial destructive force of the Universe ... hence ‘Lord

of the Dance’. CERN’s logo is encoded with 666 which is the

number associated with Saturn (Fig 236). A video was

circulated on the Internet in 2016 of a mock human sacrifice

ritual involving people in dark cloaks in front of the Shiva

statue in which a woman was ‘stabbed’. CERN really is one

strange place. American researcher Anthony Patch, who

specialises in subjects like CERN and high technology, also

believes that the Large Hadron Collider is creating a portal

with Saturn and specifically with the eye-storm area at the

southern pole. He also makes this comparison between





CERN and Saturn’s hexagon storm at the northern pole:

F igure 2 3 5 : Lord Shiva, symbol of Saturn, dancing in the ring at

CERN.

F igure 2 3 6 : Saturn’s numbers – 666 – encoded in the CERN logo.

If you were to look down upon [the northern pole of

Saturn] and then overlay a [shape of] a synchrotron

particle accelerator, and you were to look at the

symmetry, the shape of several of the detectors within



the Large Hadron Collider ... you would notice that the

hexagonal shape is identical and that the movement of

the clouds at the northern pole of Saturn, contra-rotating

clouds, one spinning one direction within and an outer

ring spinning in an opposite direction, is exactly the same

thing as what is occurring in the main ring of the Large

Hadron Collider with two opposing contra-rotating streams

of particles, of protons, that then collide which then

generate synchrotron energy. The [Collider] is a mimic of,

a model of, a replication of, the northern pole of Saturn.

If that is the case they are operating with the same

frequencies (Fig 237). Anthony Patch says that the

University of Berkeley near San Francisco, which he once

attended, is the central hub of the CERN Collider project and

that Berkeley works with the giants of nearby Silicon Valley,

home to Google, Facebook, NASA’s Ames Research Center

(for whom Norman Bergrun worked) and Lockheed Martin

(ditto) which has installed a new linear particle accelerator

at its Advanced Technology Center. He adds that 160

laboratories are connected with CERN and most have

particle accelerators. Fabiola Gianotti became the first

Director General of CERN to be invited to the El-ite

Bilderberg Group meeting when she attended the 2017

gathering in Chantilly, Virginia. Bilderberg is part of a

network of organisations manipulating governments and

world events, as I will be explaining. Why would a scientist

from CERN be invited to a political meeting organised by the

global El-ite? The question is answered above.





F igure 2 3 7 : CERN is an underground Saturn.

F igure 2 3 8 : The Moon is not what they say it is.

F igure 2 3 9 : A good analogy for the real Moon is the Death Star in

the Star

Wars movies.

Moon beams

The

closest

broadcast

point

of

the

Orion/Saturnian/Demiurgic Matrix transmissions is the Moon

and the detailed background to this can be found in Human

Race Get Off Your Knees. The Moon is like the Death Star in

the Star Wars movies in that everything goes on inside (Figs

238 and 239). Many functions related to human control are

based within the Moon, but its main roles are to amplify the

Orion/Saturn transmissions and to act as an energetic

firewall by artificially suppressing the human frequency to

make it far harder to connect with Infinite Awareness

beyond the simulation (Fig 240). I think there is technology

within the Earth that is also part of this fake-reality

projection

system

and

interacts

with

the

Moon

transmissions. You could symbolise the Moon as a broadcast

dish directing Matrix information at the human mind (Fig

241). The Moon is, like everything else, a holographic

projection and thus malleable and changeable as its

information codes are changed. There is every chance that

it could even be a holographic ‘curtain’ to hide something

else from human view. The Moon is not a ‘natural’ body and

from this emerges the extraordinary number of anomalies

that science cannot explain, right down to the most basic

question of where it came from. Irwin Shapiro, from the

Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, said: ‘The

best explanation for the Moon is observational error – the

Moon doesn’t exist.’ NASA scientist Robin Brett said much

the same: ‘It seems easier to explain the nonexistence of

the Moon than its existence.’ Science has tried and failed to

explain the existence of the Moon. First they said Earth was

hit by a ‘Mars-type planet’ during its formation and debris

was projected into space that formed the Moon. When this





story did not pan out they came back with another version

in which the Mars-type planet struck the Earth and then

came back and smacked it again (Fig 242). These are

officially known as the ‘Whack’ and ‘Double-Whack’

theories, and theories are all they are. The truth is that they

don’t have a clue where the Moon came from because it

shouldn’t be there. A small planet like Earth should not have

a satellite anything like the size of the Moon – 2,160 miles

across, bigger than Pluto, and the fifth largest in the solar

system even with all the giant planets/stars such as Saturn

and Jupiter. Researchers Christopher Knight and Alan Butler

said

in

their

book,

Who

Built

the

Moon?:

F igure 2 4 0 : The Moon is a construct with all the main action

happening inside.

It is suppressing the Earth frequency and so human awareness and

amplifying

the information Matrix broadcast from Saturn.



F igure 2 4 1 : You can very accurately symbolise one of the Moon’s

roles as a

broadcast dish.

F igure 2 4 2 : The official theory of how the Moon was created is

laughable.

The Moon is bigger than it should be, apparently older

than it should be and much lighter in mass than it should

be. It occupies an unlikely orbit and is so extraordinary

that all existing explanations for its presence are fraught

with difficulties and none of them could be considered

remotely watertight.

Evidence and informed opinion points to the Moon being

hollow, and celebrated American cosmologist Carl Sagan

said that ‘a natural satellite cannot be a hollow object.’

Every time NASA has struck the Moon with a powerful

projectile the response from seismometers located on the

surface has strongly suggested that it is hollow. One impact

equivalent to one tonne of TNT caused the Moon to ‘ring like

a bell’. Maurice Ewing, a co-director of the seismic

experiment, said: ‘It is as though someone had struck a bell,

say, in the belfry of a church, a single blow and found that

the reverberation from it continued for 30 minutes.’ Ewing

could not explain why this would happen and Dr Frank Press

from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) said

that it was ‘quite beyond the range of our experience’. Such

a relatively small impact should not have had such an

effect. Another controlled strike equivalent to 11 tonnes of

TNT caused the Moon to ‘react like a gong’ according to

NASA scientists, with the vibrations lasting for three hours

and twenty minutes to a depth of 25 miles. Ken Johnson, a

supervisor of the Data and Photo Control department during

the Apollo missions, said the whole Moon ‘wobbled’ in such

a precise way that it was ‘almost as though it had gigantic

hydraulic damper struts inside it’. The Moon was also hit

struck by a meteor in 1972 with the power equivalent of 200

tonnes of TNT. Massive shockwaves were sent into the

interior but none came back. NASA scientist Dr Gordon

MacDonald said in the 1960s that ‘it would seem the Moon

is more like a hollow than a homogeneous sphere’ and Dr

Sean C. Solomon of the MIT said evidence indicated ‘the

frightening possibility that the Moon might be hollow’.

Werner von Braun, one of the central figures in the NASA

Moon programme, talked about ‘the astounding result’ of

one impact: ‘The Moon rang like a bell for nearly an hour,

indicating some strange and unearthly underground

structure.’ Dr Lon Hood, team leader of a Moon research

team at Arizona University, revealed that their work ‘...

really does add weight to the idea that the Moon’s origin is

unique, unlike any other terrestrial body – Earth, Venus,

Mars or Mercury’. Both the Moon and Saturn are strange,

bizarre and unexplainable? Is this really yet another

coincidence? The position of the Moon is so perfect in

relation to Earth that if it were only marginally closer or

further away life here would be very different. At the time of



a lunar eclipse the Moon looks the same size as the Sun

when viewed from Earth because the Sun is 400 times

bigger than the Moon and the Moon 400 times closer (Fig

243). Knight and Butler write in Who Built the Moon?: ‘The

maths involved in the Earth-Moon-Sun system is nothing

less than staggering.’ They say the Moon has been

positioned ‘... with the accuracy of the proverbial Swiss

watchmaker’. Gnostics said there was a particular

relationship between the three bodies that did not apply to

any others. Earth-Moon interaction means that we never see

the far side of the Moon where many insiders have testified

there are advanced alien bases. Moon anomalies and

questions are endless.

F igure 2 4 3 : The Moon’s position is so precise that it looks the same

size as the

Sun when viewed from Earth..

The most plausible explanation for the Moon, which

answers all the anomalies, came in an article in the Soviet

Sputnik magazine in 1970 by two members of the Soviet

Academy of Sciences, Mikhail Vasin and Alexander

Shcherbakov. Their theme is revealed in the headline – ‘Is

the Moon the Creation of Alien Intelligence?’ Not long ago

the very idea would have been dismissed by the great

majority, but times are changing as the Truth Vibrations

continue to impact and minds open. A British national

newspaper posted with the usual ridicule a video

presentation of mine about the Moon in which I laid out the

evidence for what Vasin and Shcherbakov were saying. At

the bottom they added a poll asking people if they thought

what I said made sense of the Moon or was it simply crazy?

Some 66 percent said the explanation made sense – a

phenomenal figure compared with what it once would have

been. Among the endless anomalies is that material on the

surface of the Moon should be inside. Dr Don L. Anderson,

professor of geophysics and director of the seismological

laboratory at the California Institute of Technology, said:

‘The Moon is made inside out.’ The Soviet scientists

suggested that the Moon is a giant spacecraft and probably

a planetoid that has been ‘hollowed out’ with extremely

advanced technology. They said rock inside the Moon was

melted to create cavities in the interior and the ‘metallic

rocky slag’ then deposited on the surface to form the lunar

landscape that we see today. We can again cross-reference

modern science with ancient legends and accounts. Zulu

shaman Credo Mutwa told me that their legends say there

are compartments within the Moon, and Zulu lore

symbolises the Moon as an egg because they say it has

been hollowed out. Egg symbolism of the Moon is common

in the ancient world. Babylonians believed that their major

goddess Semiramis/Ishtar came from the Moon in a ‘giant

moon egg’ which landed in the Euphrates River. From this

legend of ‘Ishtar’s egg’ have come Easter eggs of today.

Zulu legends say the Moon was built ‘far, far away’ and ‘the

gods’ had ‘rolled the Moon across the sky’ to the Earth

‘hundreds of generations ago’. Zulus are far from the only

people to record that the Moon was not always there. All

over the world are legends and accounts that tell of a time

before the Moon. Aristotle and Plutarch in ancient Greece

and Roman authors Apollonius Rhodius and Ovid record an

Arcadia tribe called the Proselenes who said their ancestors

were there ‘before there was a moon in the heavens’.

Proselene means ‘before Selene’ – the Greek goddess of the

Moon. Censorinus, another Roman writer from the 3rd

century AD, told of a time long before when there had been

no Moon, while Dr Hans Schindler Bellamy highlights a

native tribe in Colombia called the ‘Mozces’ in his work,

Moons, Myths and Men, who say they ‘remember a time

before the present Moon became the companion of the

Earth’. My view is that the Moon’s arrival is centrally

connected to the cataclysmic events that I have described

which transformed Earth and the solar system through

massive disturbance of electromagnetic/waveform harmony

made even more powerful and destructive by technology

inside the Moon. Soviet scientists Vasin and Shcherbakov

said that the high titanium content on the Moon’s surface

along with chromium and zirconium fit the theme that the

Moon is a construct or part-construct. These are ‘refractory’

metals that are seriously resistant to heat and wear. The

scientists said the metals would result in ‘enviable

resistance to heat and the ability to stand up to means of

aggression’. They were precisely the metals you would use

to deal with the effects of temperature, cosmic radiation

and meteorite bombardment. From an engineering

perspective they said ‘this spaceship of ages long past,

which we call the Moon, is superbly constructed’. The

scientists continued: If you are going to launch an artificial

sputnik, then it is advisable to make it hollow. At the same

time it would be naï ve to imagine that anyone capable of

such a tremendous space project would be satisfied simply

with some kind of giant empty trunk hurled into a near-Earth

trajectory.

It is more likely that what we have here is a very ancient

spaceship, the interior of which was filled with fuel for the

engines, materials and appliances for repair work,

navigation instruments, observation equipment and all

manner of machinery ... in other words, everything

necessary to enable this ‘caravelle of the Universe’ to

serve as a kind of Noah’s Ark of intelligence, perhaps even

as the home of a whole civilisation envisaging a prolonged

(thousands of millions of years) existence and long

wanderings through space (thousands of millions of

miles).

Naturally, the hull of such a spaceship must be super-

tough in order to stand up to the blows of meteorites and

sharp fluctuations between extreme heat and extreme

cold. Probably the shell is a double-layered affair – the

basis a dense armouring of about 20 miles in thickness,

and outside it some kind of more loosely-packed covering

(a thinner layer – averaging about three miles). In certain

areas – where the lunar ‘seas’ and ‘craters’ are, the upper

layer is quite thin, in some cases, nonexistent.

Vasin and Shcherbakov point out that Moon craters have a

strangely consistent depth no matter the size of the impact

and this is what you would expect with a thinner outer layer

covering an impenetrable ‘dark armouring’ underneath

protecting the interior where the action takes place. The

scientists provided a lot more supportive evidence and

information, and I include this and a host of other detail

about the Moon and its anomalies in Human Race Get Off

Your Knees. A year after that book was published I was

pointed to an article in Nexus magazine about something

called the ‘CHANI Project’ or Channelled Holographic Access

Network Interface which was claimed by a whistleblower to

be a secret project based in Africa which made contact

through the computer interface with an entity in another

reality in 1994. The whistleblower said that contact

continued for five years during which a large volume of

questions were posed and answered. I read the article

without knowing what it was about and saw that the ‘entity’

had talked about the true nature of the Moon. The entity is

reported to have said: • The Moon is not a natural heavenly

body

• Life was better for humans before the Moon came ...

‘Moon forces’ control time and manipulate the mood of

humans

• The Moon is there to control the Earth’s ‘mood’ and a

big calm would come over the Earth without the Moon –

there would be only little storms, not big storms

• The ‘Old Race’ (Archons in many forms) captured the

Moon from space and located it next to the Earth

• Without the Moon, people and animals would become

calm and peaceful, and anxiety and fear would

dramatically decline

• The oceans would be much calmer, major

thunderstorms and lightning would be rare and the

climate would be balanced with no extreme heat or cold

• Without the moon telepathic and interdimensional

communication would become widespread and people

would be able to see new colours in an enhanced colour

spectrum

• There would be major changes to the human respiratory

system as blood and breathing chemistry changed. Those

born after the Moon’s demise would be able to hold their

breath under water for hours at a time

This will all sound crazy to many people on first hearing,

but put what is said in the context of what I have outlined in

the book so far and everything makes sense. ‘Moon forces’

do indeed control our perception of time by its effect on

Earth’s spin and trajectory in relation to the Sun. Even the

facet of ‘time’ that we call month comes from Moonth. Early

calendars were based on the phases of the Moon and the

month was originally 29 days from new moon to new moon.

The ‘Christian’ festival of Easter, an ancient pagan

celebration of rebirth, is associated with the Moon and still

falls on the first Sunday after the first full moon following

the spring equinox. Jewish Passover starts on the night of

the full moon after the equinox. It is well known that the

female menstrual cycle is influenced by the Moon.

‘Menstrual’ derives from the Latin word ‘mensis’, meaning

‘month’, and the menstrual cycle of 28 days is clearly

connected to the phases of the Moon. So, therefore, is

fertility. Moon goddess legends are widely associated with

fertility and childbirth. Dr Michael Zimecki of the Polish

Academy of Sciences said his research confirmed a link

between the lunar cycle, human reproduction, fertility,

menstruation and birth rate. The menstrual cycle is

triggered by hormonal changes and the Moon is known to

affect hormones that influence mood including those of the

endocrine system and its ‘third eye’ pineal gland. Claims

that ‘Moon forces’ manipulate the mood of humans are

patently correct even on that hormonal level and it goes

much deeper. The pineal gland is also targeted by fluoride in

drinking water and toothpaste which causes calcification

and prevents a connection with higher frequencies outside

the Matrix. Countless studies indicate a connection between

Moon cycles and human behaviour. Vedic Astrology, which

goes back thousands of years to the Indus Valley civilisation,

contends that the Moon rules the mind, thoughts, feelings,

memories, conditioned behaviour patterns and emotional

responses. These are the foundations of human perception

and behaviour. The Moon affects water – not least the tides

– and the body is mostly water. Or, at least, it appears to be

within the holographic projection. Water is a particular

frequency of information and the influence of the Moon on

the human body and behaviour is happening on the

waveform level. Dr Michael Zimecki has spoken of the

Moon’s electromagnetic influence and this is where it is all

really happening. What energetic interaction must there be

at the most basic level between an Earth moving at 67,000

miles per hour around the Sun and rotating at about 1,000

miles per hour, while the Moon is orbiting Earth at more

than 2,000 miles per hour? Imagine the impact on Earth and

the wider solar system of a body the size of the Moon

arriving. The sudden effect on the tides alone would explain

the Great Flood while the wider electromagnetic impact and

knock-on effect could certainly have been involved with the

cataclysm that rearranged the solar system. The point that

a ‘big calm’ would come over the Earth without the Moon in

both mood and weather can be explained by the

electromagnetic impact of the Moon on Earth’s field and the

transmissions that it is constantly firing our way. I have

explained how the Archontic force feeds off fear and chaos

and it is hardly a shock that the CHANI entity is said to have

described how ‘people and animals would become calm and

peaceful and anxiety and fear would dramatically decline’ if

the Moon was not there. What was said about telepathic and

interdimensional communication becoming widespread

without the Moon and people able to see new colours in an

enhanced colour spectrum can be explained by the

systematically-designed effect of Moon transmissions in

suppressing the human frequency. The Moon acts as a

firewall to block third eye/DNA connection to expanded

awareness and locks people away in the five-senses. This

disconnects them from awareness of that level of reality

where everything is connected and telepathy and

interdimensional communication is not only possible but the

way things are. The same applies to seeing new colours in

an enhanced colour spectrum. Near-death experiencers

invariably report seeing far more vivid colours in the out-of-

body state and shades they have never seen before. These

are colours and shades in a higher-frequency reality. Without

the Moon suppressing the human frequency we would

indeed see new colours in another spectrum. Our current

colour spectrum is the frequency band of electromagnetic

light – the simulation Matrix within the speed of light or

Archontic luminous fire. The point about the dramatic

effects on the human respiratory system, blood and

breathing chemistry, shows the extraordinary scale on

which humanity is being oppressed and limited by the

frequency firewall and its fake information source. As

Morpheus asked Neo in The Matrix: ‘Do you think that’s air

you’re breathing now?’ I think not (except in terms of click,

click, enter), but the simulation tells us that it’s air and that

if we don’t breathe we die, and so we manifest that reality

from that deeply programmed perception. Why would a

hologram need to breathe? The simulation is a self-fulfilling

prophecy and this is the scale and depth of the illusion.

Zulu shaman Credo Mutwa told me how legends describe

a very different world before the Moon came. There were no

seasons and the Earth was surrounded by a canopy of water

vapour: ‘The Earth was a beautiful place, a gentle place,

lush and green, with a gentle drizzle and mist, and the fury

of the Sun was not there.’ Credo said that the water canopy

fell to earth in a deluge of rain when the Moon arrived and

triggered what is biblically referred to as the rain that fell for

40 days and 40 nights. Movements of a body the ‘size’

(electromagnetic impact) of the Moon could certainly have

caused inter-planetary mayhem of the kind I have described

in the solar system and what technology do they have to

further enhance that? There is so much going on ‘out there’

than we have been led to believe and another place that

needs to be closely surveyed is the Kuiper Belt, a disk-

shaped area of the outer solar system from the orbit of

Neptune and going on past Pluto. The Kuiper region is 20

times wider than the Asteroid Belt, includes at least two

other dwarf planets as well as Pluto, and contains millions of

icy objects with an estimated 35,000 of them bigger than

100 kilometres in diameter. I think we are going to hear a lot

more about the Kuiper Belt and some of this connected to

extraterrestrial or ‘alien’ activity. All I have said here about

Orion, Saturn and the Moon as part of a perceptual control

grid puts into a new perspective the scene in the first Matrix

movie when Morpheus was presenting the facts of life to



Neo: The Matrix is everywhere, it is all around us, even now

in this very room. You can see it when you look out your

window, or you turn on your television. You can feel it when

you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your

taxes. It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to

blind you from the truth.’

‘What truth?’

‘That you are a slave, Neo. Like everyone else, you were

born into bondage ... born into a prison that you cannot

smell or taste or touch. A prison for your mind.

F igure 2 4 4 : DNA is our connection to the simulation but if we

expand our

awareness – therefore our frequency – DNA will begin to receive and

transmit

with realities beyond the simulation.

The ‘Universe’ (simulation) is like a self-contained ‘bubble’

with its energetic fabric infused with the Archontic mind or

frequency band. To go beyond the frequency walls of the

Matrix we must expand our awareness to breach the

perceptual program. The ‘bubble’/simulation is an

information source in the form of photons which are picked

up by our DNA receiver-transmission system and decoded

by the sight sense into electrical signals that strike the

visual centre of the brain (Fig 244). Electrical information is

then decoded into the holographic ‘world’ that we

experience as outside of us. Archontic control appears to

hold all the aces after infecting the human energetic field

with its ‘counterfeit spirit’ which closes the heart centre for

those without influence of expanded awareness; but anyone

can open their mind and let consciousness beyond the

program change everything individually and collectively.

While so many remain gripped in the perceptual clutches of

the fake reality there is also an awakening happening

worldwide like never before as ever-gathering numbers see





through the illusion.

All is not lost. With the knowledge I am laying out here, it

has only just begun.

‘We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the

stars’ – Oscar Wilde

The foundation of human control is the Demiurgic

distortion, a deeply imbalanced state of awareness which

has no form, but can take form in endless ways by direct

genie-like manifestation, by the infusion of what Gnostics

called the counterfeit spirit and by what has been known

throughout the ‘ages’ as ‘possession’ (Fig 245).



F igure 2 4 5 : In these ways the Archontic distortion can take

countless forms.

This is vital to keep in mind and it is worth repeating at

this point what I said earlier: ‘Demiurgic’ and ‘Archontic’ are

terms I am using for a distorted, inverted and monumentally

imbalanced state of awareness. You could liken this to a

computer virus which infects and distorts perceptions of

those it possesses and turns them into versions of itself. I

am not only talking about humans either. The distortion

infects nonhuman races throughout the Lower Aeons that

we call aliens and extraterrestrials. They may look very

different, but the driving force of perception and behaviour

is the same. The idea that humanity is the only expression



of ‘intelligent life’ is so ludicrous, so naï ve, that it merely

confirms the power of perception programming. Observe the

immense diversity of human form and even more so with

animals and insects and this is happening only within visible

light, a fraction of the electromagnetic spectrum which

according to mainstream science represents just 0.005

percent of what exists in the Universe. Cosmologist Carl

Sagan said: ‘There are more potential combinations of DNA

[holographic forms] than there are atoms in the Universe.’

Time, space and distance may be illusions, but if we employ

our perception of distance then Planet Earth represents a

billionth of a pinhead compared with the projected size of

the Universe (Fig 246). We can see a fraction of 0.005

percent of the Universe (never mind infinity beyond that)

while living ‘on’ a planet equivalent to a billionth the size of

a pinhead and yet still many people laugh at any suggestion

that life other than humans can exist?? And those same

people have the nerve to say that I’m mad.

F igure 2 4 6 : An Internet posting putting this ‘we are alone’ nonsense

in

perspective.

Cultures across the world throughout what we call history

have come and gone while describing the same common

theme of a force at work manipulating human reality. Names

may vary, but the theme is a constant. These manipulators

and visitors have been known as serpent gods (Far East and

Central America); snake brothers (Hopi); Chitauri (Zulu);

Anunnaki (Sumer, later Babylon); star people (many and

various); demons (Christianity); Archons (Gnostics); Jinn

(Islam and pre-Islamic Arabia); and Flyers or the Predators

(Central America). There are many other names, too,

including the Watchers, Shining Ones and Fallen Angels.

Some are referring to entities in form – serpent gods, snake

brothers, and so on – while others are describing entities

operating exclusively in the unseen. What connects them all

is the Archontic self-aware distortion or counterfeit spirit.

There are countless nonhuman races and groups taking

equally diverse forms and they span the perceptual

spectrum from connection with Infinite Awareness to full-

blown counterfeit spirit. I am well known for highlighting

manipulation by a reptile group (‘the Reptilians’) in league

with the ‘Greys’ (recorded by ancients as ‘Ant People’) who

have become the predominant concept of an alien. I have

taken unceasing ridicule from those with prisons where their

minds should be, but it turns out that Gnostics were

connecting a reptilian form and Greys to their Archons in

texts sealed in a jar at Nag Hammadi 1,600 years ago. They

say the most common manifestations of Archons in form are

reptilian or serpentine and those that look like ‘an unborn

baby or foetus with grey skin and dark, unmoving eyes’.

People today have claimed in large numbers worldwide to

have been contacted or abducted by ‘aliens’ which they

describe in the same way – reptilian and what have become

known for obvious reasons as Greys (Fig 247). Other types,

including a human-like blue-eyed, blond-haired group

dubbed the ‘Nordics’, are also reported by those

(‘contactees’) claiming to have had contact with nonhuman

entities and those who say they have been abducted

(‘abductees’) against their will. This Nordic group have a

genetic connection to human white races and especially

those with blond hair and blue eyes although Nordics are

reported with dark hair and red hair, too. Zulus called the

Nordics the ‘Mzungu’ and said they could appear and

disappear. Zulu shaman Credo Mutwa told me that when

white Europeans first arrived in South Africa the people



thought they were the returning Mzungu (Fig 248). There

are so many nonhuman types but Reptilians and Greys

appear to be the most dominant in terms of manipulating

human life and certainly the most active in human

interbreeding programmes (infusing the counterfeit spirit).

People claiming to be abducted by Reptilians and Greys

often describe having eggs and sperm removed for hybrid

breeding programmes. Millions in America alone have

claimed to have been abducted by ‘aliens’ and just as many

if not more don’t remember being abducted because of the

effect it has on their minds in blocking the memory of a

terrifying experience. These are some quotes from NASA



astronauts about the reality of extraterrestrial or ‘alien’

activity:

F igure 2 4 7 : At least some Reptilians and Greys are vehicles for the

Archontic

mind or distortion.

F igure 2 4 8 : A painting by Credo Mutwa from ancient Zulu

descriptions of the

Mzungu.

• Scott Carpenter, the second American to orbit the Earth:

‘At no time, when the astronauts were in space were they

alone: there was a constant surveillance by UFOs.’

• Major Gordon Cooper, the last American to fly in space

alone: ‘I believe that these extraterrestrial vehicles and

their crews are visiting this planet from other planets ...

Most astronauts were reluctant to discuss UFOs.’

• Cooper again: ‘For many years I have lived with a secret,

in a secrecy imposed on all specialists in astronautics. I

can now reveal that every day, in the USA, our radar

instruments capture objects of form and composition

unknown to us. And there are thousands of witness

reports and a quantity of documents to prove this, but

nobody wants to make them public.

•

Maurice

Chatelain,

former

head

of

NASA

Communications Systems: ‘... all Apollo and Gemini flights

were followed, both at a distance and sometimes also



quite closely, by space vehicles of extraterrestrial origin –

flying saucers, or UFOs, if you want to call them by that

name. Every time it occurred, the astronauts informed

Mission Control, who then ordered absolute silence.’

F igure 2 4 9 : There is a wealth of background and personal accounts

in this

book of Reptilian and other nonhuman activity within human society.

The media (including most of the ‘alternative’) and society

in general ridicule what I have said and written while

denying themselves credibility by doing no research

whatsoever into information that they dismiss with a wave

of the hand. What I am saying is way outside their

programmed version of ‘normal’ and they respond to

program. I speak, they press enter, and out comes ‘that Icke

is mad’. I have not reached my conclusions by pulling them

out of nowhere, but with the best part of 30 years of

research, ancient and modern, all over the world. When you

have the same information and entities described by

contactees/abductees today and by culture after culture

thousands of years ago are we saying this should not be

pursued and researched? I’ll decide what I pursue, thank

you, not ignorance finding expression in ridicule. I have

compiled a massive body of work and evidence in previous

books relating to the manipulation of human society by a

reptilian race including the groundbreaking Children of the

Matrix which was first published in 2001. This is the book

most focused on the reptilian aspect of the Archontic

conspiracy and includes ancient accounts and experiences

of many people today who have seen and interacted with

these entities (Fig 249). Their stories are dismissed as fantasy because of their fantastic nature for one simple

reason that is repeated again and again throughout human

society and especially the media: The dismissers are

absolutely clueless about the reality they daily experience.

Witnesses tell of entities appearing out of nowhere and

disappearing into nowhere. To solid-reality believers this is

impossible, but reality is not solid. This appear-disappear

illusion is caused by entities normally operating outside of

visible light entering the human visual frequency band.

When this happens any observer perceives the entity

manifesting out of nothing. The reverse happens when they

leave the human frequency band and to the observer

‘disappear’. I mentioned earlier how the same principle is at

work when UFOs are described as appearing and

disappearing. Abductees report being taken up into

hovering craft through a ‘bright light’ and they are

describing an electromagnetic field projection locking into

their electromagnetic field (there is no physical). Many

targeted by these lights have suffered radiation burns and

even died from radiation poisoning. Other ‘alien’

manifestations that people think they see are projections

into their minds. The brain decodes information into the

reality we believe we are ‘physically’ experiencing and it is

possible to hack that information source so that entities

seem to appear and events seem to happen, but they don’t

really. This is being done to individuals and humanity

collectively far more than people begin to imagine and the

phenomenon has been accurately portrayed in sci-fi movies

and television series such as Star Trek. So what is real

beyond the fact that we are expressions of awareness? I

have heard it said many times that craft could not travel the

incredible distances claimed across the galaxy to Earth, but

here again we have a misunderstanding of reality.

Everything and everywhere has its own unique frequency

and if you sync with that frequency either through your

mind or technology then that is where you must be.

Advanced spacecraft beyond this world (which are more

about consciousness than anything ‘physical’) connect with

the frequency of where they want to go and bingo they are

there. No distance is involved because space is an illusion.

Albert Einstein said:

Everything is energy and that’s all there is to it. Match the

frequency of the reality you want and you can’t help but

get that reality. It can be no other way. This is not

philosophy. This is physics.

Research the now enormous body of global evidence of

extraterrestrial and UFO activity and you will see what the

authorities and mainstream media are not telling you – and

most of the ‘alternative’ media, too. Reported UFO sights

have increased from 10,000 to 45,000 a year according to

data compiled by the National UFO Reporting Centre in

Washington State. Emphasis on reported because most are

not. I would add a rider to that, however. Not every

‘spacecraft’ is flown by ‘aliens’. The Hidden Hand just wants

us to think so as part of a wider agenda. ‘Flying saucers’

(anti-gravity craft) have long been built in beyond-top-secret

military projects and underground facilities especially in the

United States. American aerospace engineer William

Tompkins, who died suddenly in August 2017 after a fall

aged 94, published a book in 2015 detailing what he said

were his direct experiences of extraterrestrial activities

while working for the US Navy, which he said had cleared

him to make the information public (up to a point). A second

book was close to completion when he died. He described

how he worked from the 1940s with a secret think tank

based at one of the US Navy’s biggest and most important

bases in San Diego. Tompkins writes in Selected by

Extraterrestrials: My life in the top secret world of UFOs,

think-tanks and Nordic secretaries about the Reptilian

connection and his work with human-like ‘Nordic’ ETs who

he says are trying to help humanity end the Reptilian control

of our reality. His information was published long after I had

begun exposing the Reptilian manipulation of human society

more than 20 years earlier, and its relationship with the

Moon. He said he was linked to a group of American Navy

spies during World War II who stole UFO secrets from the

Nazis. He claimed that he personally gave them to US

military and space corporations such as Lockheed, Douglas,

Northrop, Grumman and others to produce advanced anti-

gravity craft (‘flying saucers’) and other technology way

beyond human knowledge at the time. The California

Institute of Technology (Caltech) was also heavily involved,

he said. As a result ‘UFOs’ have been flown by at least both

Americans and Germans. Tompkins said that the Nazis were

involved with a reptilian race which gave them advanced

technological knowledge. He writes that the Moon is an

artificial object and a Reptilian command centre with

structures on the far side that we never see. I had been

saying all this for many years, and quoting former NASA

employees who had seen pictures of those structures

denied to the public. There are even tracks that have been

clearly made by something moving technologically.

Tompkins talked about ‘Draco’ Reptilians. I covered the

background and nature of the Draco or Draconians in

Children of the Matrix which was first published in 2001.

They claim to be Reptilian ‘royalty’ and they appear to us on

Earth as human royalty and many world leaders (more

later). Tompkins said that the Apollo mission in 1969 had

been just a show to hide the truth and America has never

returned since the Apollo programme ended because the

Reptilians warned against it. He described how the Moon

was occupied by nine-feet-tall ‘Draco’ Reptilians when

astronauts landed in the first Apollo mission: ‘After we get to

the Moon we got some surprises – the Draco Reptilians were

already there.’ Ken Johnston is a former chief Lunar Module

test pilot at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston and

during the Apollo Program worked with Brown & Root, the

principal contractor to NASA’s Lunar Receiving Laboratory

where moon rocks were stored and catalogued with

photographs of their location. They included pictures taken

by astronauts on chest-mounted cameras. Johnson told a

SyFy channel television documentary Aliens on the Moon in

2014 that alien ships were waiting when astronauts Neil

Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin arrived:

While Neil and Buzz were on the Lunar surface, Neil

switched to the medical channel [which couldn’t be

publicly heard], and spoke directly with the chief medical

officer saying, they’re here, they’re parked on the side of

the crater, they’re watching us.

William Tompkins said that what Armstrong saw were

ships floating above the crater with hundreds of Reptilian

entities standing below them. He said the International

Space Station is connected to this background of

extraterrestrial activity and he described Earth as a

laboratory for Reptilians and other ETs to experiment on

humans. ‘You have Draco Reptilian guys running your

governments of every country on the planet’, he said. They

had the same skin as lizards and reptiles, but all had the

ability to shapeshift into human form – which I have been

saying since the 1990s. Tompkins said all recent presidents

up to Obama and including the Bushes and Bill Clinton have

been shapeshifting Reptilians taking human form. He said

Reptilians have bases throughout the solar system and

under the Earth including an infamous one under Antarctica

which I wrote about two decades ago and was shared with a

breakaway group of Nazis who fled there after the war.

Saturn researcher and insider Norman Bergrun said that he

saw an image of a nonhuman craft on the ground in

Antarctica during his time with top secret clearance.

Mysterious microwave anomalies in that region were

detected in April and May 2017 and pulse waves of energy

emanating from there are affecting weather patterns. Other

claims by Anthony Tompkins from 2015 to his death

included:

• Reptilians are expert in mass and individual perception

manipulation and the creation of illusions. Genetic and

other manipulation means that humans use a fraction of

their brain capacity. He put it at just over two percent

when it could be virtually 100 percent. Earth is an

extraterrestrial laboratory. Reptilians eat humans and take

part in ritual sacrifices.

• Reptilians and their Draco ‘royalty’ have been taking

over other planets and star systems and hijacking our

reality is ‘old stuff to them’ (which corresponds with what

the ‘CHANI’ Project entity is quoted as saying).

• Extraterrestrials built the pyramids around the world and

other structures that we would struggle to build even

today and he talked about an Orion connection. Reptilians

and advanced ETs are capable of blowing up planets and



the asteroid belt is the remnants of a planet destroyed

between Mars and Jupiter – as Immanuel Velikovsky wrote

in the 1950s. The gigantic hole that we now call the Pacific

Ocean is the result of a fantastic impact during the

catastrophe.

• Extraterrestrial races are at war with each other

(Reptilians-Nordics are one example) and behind wars on

Earth. Human elites and military insiders are working with

extraterrestrials – especially Reptilian – and this is the

source for most advanced technology (designed for

further enslavement as we shall see). There are human-ET

underground bases on Mars.

F igure 2 5 0 : The Great Pyramid at Giza in Egypt was built

thousands of years

ago with 2.3 million stone blocks weighing on average between 2.5

and 15 tons.

I have been writing all the same information and more in

stages since the 1990s to the sound of mainstream ridicule

and laughter. People will have to come to their own

conclusions about what Tompkins said, but he provided a lot

of supporting detail and documentation to back-up his

claims about working in secret government projects. I do

question why his US Navy masters gave him permission to

reveal all this even if it was only up to a point. We should

always keep in mind that there have been NASA/US military

plans to stage a fake ‘alien invasion’ – the best known of

them called Project Blue Beam – which would allow power to

be centralised globally to respond to the threat. One very

interesting correlation is that Tompkins said the current

Reptilian phase of mass human manipulation began 6,000

years ago. This is the same period when the ‘new psyche’

began to emerge out of the Middle East and Asia

(‘Saharasia’) with the violent invasions of Indo-European

and Semitic peoples. The Reptilians have been here for

much longer than that, but this was when the most severe

manipulation of human perception began and it is now

reaching its end game with the technological control system

called transhumanism (once again, more later). I contend

that the ‘new psyche’ was the result (with other influences)

of Archontic Reptilian genetic programmes that transformed

the way that humans processed information and perceived

reality. Tompkins talked about extraterrestrials building the

pyramids around the world and this is another theme of my

own work over the years. They were at least one reason for

pyramid and other ancient alignments with locations in the

heavens and each other. Ancient Aliens, the long-running

History Channel series, has done some very good work

highlighting extraterrestrial interactions with humans in the

distant ‘past’ and their legacy in magnificent and advanced

constructions – points that insiders like Anthony Tompkins

have also made (Figs 250 and 251). They include pyramids, temples, ritual sites, standing stones and circles

energetically aligned with Orion, Saturn and the Moon (to



manipulate flows of energy through the planet’s meridian or

leyline system to infuse Orion/Saturn/Moon energy –

information). My one disappointment with Ancient Aliens is

that from what I have seen it focuses on the ‘physical’ realm

of visible light when the real deal is beyond that. Tompkins

talked about shapeshifting between human and reptilian

form with particular reference to US presidents, and again I

have been saying the same since the 1990s in the face of

much hilarity. Such dismissal comes again from ignorance of

reality. You can’t change from one solid body to another,

right? Yes, right, of course not, but the body is not solid. We

are talking about a shift from one energetic information field

(hologram) to another with no solidity involved at all. I’ll be

expanding on this. If Reptilians have been around for at

least thousands of years – actually far longer – you would

expect that the ancients would have left us evidence and

clues. Reverend John Bathurst Deane published a study in

1933 into the universal theme of serpent worship called

Worship of the Serpent. This was his conclusion:

F igure 2 5 1 : Saksaywaman (also Sacsayhuaman) near Cusco,

Peru, with its

perfect alignment of stones weighing up to 100 tons.

It appears, then, that no nations were so geographically

remote, or so religiously discordant, but that one – and

only one – superstitious characteristic was common to all:

that the most civilized and the most barbarous bowed

down with the same devotion to the same engrossing

deity; and that this deity either was, or was represented

by, the same sacred serpent.

It appears also that in most, if not all, the civilized

countries where this serpent was worshipped, some fable

or tradition which involved his history, directly or

indirectly, alluded to the Fall of Man in Paradise, in which

the serpent was concerned.

What follows, then, but that the most ancient account

respecting the cause and nature of this seduction must be

the one from which all the rest are derived which

represent the victorious serpent – victorious over man in a

state of innocence, and subduing his soul in a state of sin,

into the most abject veneration and adoration of himself.

So what was this global obsession with the serpent and

serpent gods? And why were they so connected to ‘The

Fall’? The symbolic serpent is the villain in the Garden of

Eden story and Reverend Deane found this to be a

universally common thread (although some Gnostic texts

describe it differently). Do Christians really believe that the

Eden serpent was literally a talking snake? It’s all symbolic.

The biblical Devil or Satan is described in serpentine terms

in the Book of Revelation:

And the Great Dragon was cast out, that old serpent,

called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole

world. He was cast out into the Earth and his angels were

cast out with him.



F igure 2 5 2 : The expansion of the ‘new psyche’ out of the Middle

East.

The Jewish religion has its ‘Holy Serpent’ or Leviathan and

the theme is everywhere. There was also clearly at least one

‘Fall’ that can be identified from around 6,000 years ago

from which emerged the ‘new psyche’ out of the Middle East

after the Indo-European/Semitic invasions. Major religions

such as Christianity, Islam and Judaism all came out of the

same Middle East from ancient cultures in the same ‘post-

Fall’ period. The new intellect-dominated, left-brain-

dominated, five-sense-dominated, empathy-suppressing

new psyche established Sumer and Babylon in Mesopotamia

and then Rome and the Roman Empire before heading north

into Europe and Russia and east into Asia as far as China

(Fig 252). New psyche invasions from Spain, Portugal and

other European countries colonised South America.

Suddenly there were mass wars, male-domination, control

by hierarchies, class systems and religions as we have come

to know them. Britain became the control centre of the new

psyche and the British Empire took it to the Americas,

Africa, Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere (Fig 253). The British

monarch is still today head of state in 15 other

Commonwealth countries including Canada, Australia and

New Zealand, at tremendous cost while so many ‘subjects’

sleep on the street. What madness that the masses allow

this institution of grotesque privilege and superiority to

continue to rule them – as it does. Forget the bullshit about

royalty just being symbolic figureheads that bring in the

tourists. There is always money for royalty and war and the

lavish multi-palace, golden coach lifestyle of the royals is

profoundly symbolic of the way the Draco see themselves

as compared to the human population. Wherever the new

psyche and its Draco ‘royal’ bloodlines went their goal was

to take over countries and collectively the world. I say this

psyche came from genetic manipulation described in

ancient texts by the Reptilian-Grey overseers and from the

psychological and perceptual effects of the astrological

heavens being rewired along with other influences. Every

new psyche invasion followed the same sequence to target

indigenous cultures of the old psyche which was still

processing and decoding reality in a different way. Shamans

and ancient knowledge were taken out of circulation through

enslavement and mass murder, and new psyche religions

were imposed to replace them. Christianity was the prime

perception invader led by the vicious psychopaths of the

Roman Church. I find it so sad to see American and African

black people being such vociferous advocates of the

Christian religion today when its role was to oppress their

ancestors and delete so much of the knowledge they once

passed from generation to generation.



F igure 2 5 3 : From Europe the new psyche was exported across the

world

through colonial invasion with the British Empire to the fore.

Christianity and especially the Roman Catholic version

enforced by merciless Jesuits were imposed upon ancient

peoples of Africa and the Americas. We had the callous and

heartless treatment of indigenous Australians after the

British arrived. Foot-soldier thugs who enforced this cultural

fascism would have had no idea what they were really

doing, but those in the shadows did. Here you have the real

reason why indigenous peoples were so brutally targeted.

Archontic invaders wanted only the perceptual enslavement

of the new psyche to prevail, which worships at the altar of

the five senses and becomes ever more deeply immersed in

the simulation. Carriers of the old psyche had to either be

removed or be absorbed into the new one. This has

happened to a very large extent, but not completely. I have

met many native people who are the new psyche

masquerading as ancient enlightenment and I have met

some who can still see beyond the illusion. Perception and

the way a brain decodes reality can be changed purely by

absorption into another culture (information source).

Scientists believed that once formed the brain didn’t

change, but they know differently now. I have mentioned

that the brain has what they call ‘placidity’ and can be

rewired in accordance with the information it receives and

processes. Just living in a world based purely on materialism

and the five senses can new-psyche the brain to decode and

perceive a different sense of reality. This is so clearly

happening today with ‘Smart’ technology changing the

brain and therefore behaviour faster than ever before – as

planned. Don Juan Matus, a Yaqui Indian healer or shaman in

Mexico, was one who could still ‘see’ through the veil when

he was the information source for Peruvian-born writer,

Carlos Castaneda, who wrote a series of books from the

1960s to 1990s. I read what Don Juan said after I had myself

written in similar terms from my own sources. It was still

more confirmation of the same recurring theme. Don Juan

described the force manipulating human society:

We have a predator that came from the depths of the

cosmos and took over the rule of our lives. Human beings

are its prisoners. The predator is our lord and master. It

has rendered us docile, helpless. If we want to protest, it

suppresses our protest. If we want to act independently, it

demands that we don’t do so ... indeed we are held

prisoner!

They took us over because we are food to them, and they

squeeze us mercilessly because we are their sustenance.

Just as we rear chickens in coops, the predators rear us in

human coops, humaneros. Therefore, their food is always

available to them.

‘Food’ = human emotional and electromagnetic energy

within the Archontic frequency band (fear) on which

Reptilians and Greys as expressions of the Archontic

frequency also feed.

Think for a moment, and tell me how you would explain

the contradictions between the intelligence of man the

engineer and the stupidity of his systems of belief, or the

stupidity of his contradictory behaviour.

I will explain these apparent contradictions in a later

chapter.

Sorcerers believe that the predators have given us our

systems of beliefs, our ideas of good and evil; our social

mores. They are the ones who set up our dreams of

success or failure. They have given us covetousness,

greed, and cowardice. It is the predator who makes us

complacent, routinary, and egomaniacal.

This is what I have been saying and writing for decades.

In order to keep us obedient and meek and weak, the

predators engaged themselves in a stupendous

manoeuvre – stupendous, of course, from the point of

view of a fighting strategist; a horrendous manoeuvre



from the point of those who suffer it. They gave us their

mind. The predators’ mind is baroque, contradictory,

morose, filled with the fear of being discovered any

minute now.’

They gave us their counterfeit spirit and they are terrified

of humans expanding their awareness beyond the program

because then the game is up (Fig 254).

Sorcerers of ancient Mexico ... reasoned that man must

have been a complete being at one point, with

stupendous insights, feats of awareness that are

mythological legends nowadays. And then, everything

seems to disappear, and we have now a sedated man.

F igure 2 5 4 : The infusion into the human energy field/organism of

the

counterfeit spirit ‘new psyche’.

He is talking about the pre-hacked human of the Golden

Age and what happened after ‘The Fall’.

What I’m saying is that what we have against us is not a

simple predator. It is very smart, and organised. It follows

a methodical system to render us useless. Man, the

magical being that he is destined to be, is no longer

magical. He’s an average piece of meat. There are no

more dreams for man but the dreams of an animal who is

being raised to be a piece of meat: trite, conventional,

imbecilic.’

Look around at much of humanity and you can see that

this is true, but it does not have to remain so. We can break

out of the perceptual prison and increasing numbers are

doing that.





F igure 2 5 5 : Alpha Draconis.

F igure 2 5 6 : Zeta Reticuli binary star system.



F igure 2 5 7 : A portrayal of the Draconians or Draco.

Demonic duo Archon-possessed and controlled

reptilian entities operating from the unseen have been

centrally involved in this hijack of human perception and

genetic manipulation, along with their subordinates, the

Greys, who comprise some 43 percent of reported ‘alien’

encounters. Reptilians and Greys are both reported by

contactees and abductees to be connected to the Orion

constellation along with the Alpha Draconis or Draco

constellation (Reptilians) and Zeta Reticuli star system

(Greys). Sirius has also been associated with reptilian-like

entities. Alpha Draconis can be seen in the far northern sky

and Zeta Reticuli is a binary star system in the southern

constellation of Reticulum (Figs 255 and 256). The latter can be seen with the naked eye when the sky is particularly dark

in the southern hemisphere. Alpha Draconis is reported to

be home to the Reptilian ‘royalty’ known as the Draconians

or Draco (Latin for dragon). They are described by those

who have interacted with them as having horns, wings and

tails (Fig 257). The Draco considered most genetically-

superior at the top of the hierarchy-obsessed Reptilian

control structure are albino-like as reported to me by a

number of insiders and abductees. There are many types of

reptilian, not all of them hostile, but the ones I am talking

about certainly are. They and the Greys are invariably

described as vicious, emotionless and without empathy

along with all the other psychopathic traits attributed to the

full-blown Archontic counterfeit spirit. These traits include

having no remorse or shame and producing parasitical

pathological liars who will do anything to get what they

want. Reptilians and Greys function as a hive mind, like a

bee or ant colony, and that mind is the Archontic mind. Don

Juan Matus said ‘they gave us their mind’ and the ‘hive

mind’ mentality of so many humans is easy to spot. Some

researchers and alien experiencers refer to the source of

this hive mind as the ‘Orion Queen’, as in queen bee, but

when you come at all this from the perspective of a fake-

reality generated through Orion the hive mind becomes the

Demiurgic mind. Human royal hierarchies are Draco royalty

incarnate. When many kingdoms joined together in battle,

or as a group of kingdoms, they appointed a king of kings

and these were known as the Great Dragon or ... Draco. We

had the Celtic title of Pendragon, as in Uther Pendragon,

father of ‘King Arthur’ in the Grail stories. Reptilians and

Greys operate largely in the unseen realms but they do

enter our reality by appearing ‘out of nowhere’ to human

contactees/abductees and also in flying craft. I met Spanish

artist Robert Llimos in Barcelona in 2010. He had never

heard of me or reptilian entities until an experience he had

in Brazil. He was there with his Brazilian partner and one

day went out alone into the countryside to paint the

landscape. After he set up his easel and began to paint he

said a craft about 50-metres wide came down and hovered



in front of him for two hours. Robert told me that he doesn’t

know if he was taken aboard the ship, but he has no

recollection of it. He said he painted the scene which

included two reptilian figures who stared at him from the

craft’s only open window (Fig 258). When you compare his

images with that of Zulu high shaman Credo Mutwa they are

remarkably similar (Fig 259). Credo painted his picture from

ancient and modern descriptions of the reptilian ‘Chitauri’,

and if you put ‘Credo Mutwa, Reptilian Agenda’ into the

search engine at Davidicke.com there is a six-hour long video in which Credo talks to me about Zulu legends of the

Chitauri reptilian manipulators and his own experience of

the Greys.



F igure 2 5 8 : What artist Robert Llimos said that he saw in Brazil.

F igure 2 5 9 : Credo Mutwa’s painting of the Reptilian ‘worker class’

from ancient

and modern descriptions.

Thousands of clay tablets and fragments found in what is

now Iraq tell the story of a nonhuman invader-race known

as the Anunna or Anunnaki (‘Those Who From Heaven To

Earth Came’ in at least one translation). The tablets include

accounts of human history compiled by ancient societies in

Mesopotamia (‘The Land Between Two Rivers’ – the Tigris

and Euphrates). This was the land of Sumer (approximately

3000-1800 BC) and Babylon (approximately 1800-539 BC in

different forms) and has been dubbed the cradle of

civilisation. Mesopotamia was really a new psyche

civilisation that emerged after the ‘Great Change’ and the

cataclysmic events in the solar system. The Mesopotamian

tablets say that the Anunnaki were led by two brothers, Enlil

and Enki, sons of Anu, or ‘Lord of the Sky’. Zulu accounts

say the same about the Reptilian Chitauri (‘Children of the

Serpent’ or ‘Children of the Python’) and call the brothers

Wowane and Mpanku. They describe how these brothers

rolled the Moon across the sky and into orbit around the

Earth. Wowane and Mpanku are known as the ‘water

brothers’ by Zulus while the Mesopotamian Enki (Ea to

Babylonians) was also associated with water as the god of

fresh waters. Anunnaki and Chitauri are said to have forced

humans to mine gold in Africa and it is obvious from all this

and much more that Anunnaki and Chitauri are different

names for the same Reptilian invaders. Mesopotamian and

Zulu accounts both say the Anunnaki-Chitauri were

responsible for creating the catastrophic ‘Great Flood’

events that brought an end to human society as it had been

before. Enki is said to have warned a human ‘priest-king’

called Ziusudra about what was to come and gave

instructions to build a huge ship to survive the flood and to

take aboard ‘beasts and birds’. Thousands of years later

came a biblical rewrite of the story placed in a Hebrew

context with Ziusudra renamed as Noah. In other societies

the same character is Deucalion (Greece), Manu (India), Fo-

hi (China), X isthros (Persia), Nota (Mexico), and Utnapishtim

(Mesopotamia).

Visitations by Reptilian and Grey entities (and many

others) are not new. They have simply entered a new stage

in the last 6,000 years or so in our perception of ‘time’. They

were coming into our reality from the unseen and

manipulating with their high technology and other means

when humans were still living in caves or wearing breeches

and firing muskets. This is how Gnostic texts could describe

reptilian and grey-skinned entities as Archons in form and

we

have

modern



alien

experiencers

and

government/military insiders describing the same. There are

so many descriptions in ancient texts of what are clearly

high-technology craft and you find this in the Bible with

people being ‘taken up to heaven’. Other examples are

‘flying palaces’ or ‘chariots’ called Vimana in Hindu texts

and Sanskrit epics. The Mahabharata, one of the two major

Sanskrit epics of ancient India, tells of ‘two-story sky

chariots with many windows, ejecting red flame, that race

up into the sky until they look like comets . . . to the regions

of both the sun and the stars.’ Symbolism for flying craft is

everywhere among ancient accounts, legends and stories.

Then there are the remarkable accounts of the Dogon tribe

in Mali, Africa, who say that entities from Sirius they call the

Nommo or ‘Masters of the Water’ visited their ancestors and

gave them knowledge of the Universe (Fig 260). Nommo are

described as amphibious and ‘serpent-featured’. This

connects with the stories of the Anunnaki/Chitauri and can

be related to the ancient fish-god religions (see worship of

Oannes and Dagon) in which the priests wore headgear that

looked like a fish-head. This is now called the ‘Christian’

mitre (Fig 261). Dogon refer to Sirius as ‘the Land of the

Fish’ and Sumerians and Babylonians in Mesopotamia

worshipped fish gods they described in similar terms. Credo

Mutwa wrote in his book, Song of the Stars:

F igure 2 6 0 : Ancient depiction of the fish gods.



F igure 2 6 1 : Headgear of the fish god priests was the origin of the

‘Christian’

mitre.

Not only among the Zulu, but the Dogon, and many

widespread African tribes, there are stories of the Nommo,

who resemble the king of the Water People in our legend.

They are said to be intelligent beings who have visited the

Earth several times. They are usually described as

somewhat like human beings, but with skins like reptiles.

Robert Temple wrote about the Dogon in The Sirius

Mystery. He notes that their ancient accounts knew about

all the planets as far as Pluto and told of moons that have

only recently been identified. Dogon accounts said that a

star orbited Sirius that was so heavy all the people of the

world could not lift it. Their legends described this before

scientists discovered what they were talking about – a

phenomenally heavy dwarf star named Sirius B (Fig 262).

Dogon are also reported to have described another star

orbiting Sirius which was later located by astronomers in

1995 and given the name Sirius C. The Pleaides

constellation often comes up in abductee and contactee

reports which talk of human-like blue-eyed blond ETs from

there who are said to have originated in the Lyra

constellation in the northern sky with its brightest star Vega.

From the vast ancient and modern evidence Earth has been

visited from many locations throughout known human

history and before. Most operate in other realities or

dimensions of the Demiurgic Lower Aeons and don’t take a

form that requires the same atmosphere that humans do.

Entities within Saturn and coming in through the Saturn’s

interdimensional gateway are obviously nothing like humans

in their energetic make-up and atmospheric needs. This is

one answer to the ‘Fermi Paradox’ named after Italian

physicist Enrico Fermi. He said that with 100 billion stars in

the galaxy it was inevitable that intelligent life must have

evolved elsewhere and so ‘where are the aliens?’

Benevolence or malevolence with other-world visitors is

dictated by where they are on the spectrum of

consciousness and how influenced they are by the

counterfeit spirit. There are some who are working to help

humanity awaken as there are others seeking to keep us

asleep, but most have an agenda in which humanity is at

the very least not the first priority. Those seeking a human

awakening are too far up the frequency scale to directly

interact with us and they communicate through an

awareness connection and by directly ‘incarnating’ into

human form while retaining a consciousness link to ‘home’.

Well, that’s the idea, anyway. Many get lost in the illusion

themselves.



F igure 2 6 2 : Sirius A and B (the brightest star to the right).

World beneath our feet Reptilians and Greys also

have colonies in cavern and cave systems deep

underground. They can’t survive for long in our sunlight

(hence the vampire legends about having to be back in the

coffin before the sun rises) and some Reptilian and Grey

groups (and others) located themselves within the Earth

from where they can come and go through inter-frequency

relocation. I have heard many stories of people seeing what

at first looked like a spacecraft suddenly transforming into

an energetic flash that passed through the Earth’s surface

and into the interior. Today the most secret underground

military bases or ‘DUMBS’ – Deep Underground Military

Bases – connect with the Reptilian/Grey cavern

systems/cities and at the deepest levels (often miles below

the surface) interaction takes place with ‘human’ El-ite

networks in pursuit of a common agenda for mass human

control. These bases and massive cities and factory systems

inside mountains are so beyond top secret that US

Presidents are not allowed to know what really goes on

there because they don’t have a high enough security

clearance. Presidents come and go, like politicians all over

the world, without knowing what is happening in these

bases let alone giving the orders. So what is the

coordinating force controlling the DUMBS which is always

there no matter what puppet is in the White House,

Downing Street or wherever? Reptilians and Greys have

human-hybrid networks representing their interests and

hijacking positions of real power. Hawaii Senator Daniel

Inouye, who served nine terms in the Senate, said on

Capitol Hill in 1987: ‘There exists a shadowy government

with its own Air Force, its own Navy, its own fundraising

mechanism, and the ability to pursue its own ideas of

national interest, free from all checks and balances, and free

from the law itself.’ He was exactly right. DUMBS are where

the technology exchange goes on that manifests on the

surface with ‘a company has invented a society-changing

computer system’ or ‘a geek has developed an amazing

device in his garage’. These are often cover stories for

where the technology really came from and this is the very

technology being used for mass human control on the scale

that is now becoming clear.

DUMBS are built in levels or layers and the lower you go

the higher the security clearance that you need. Even most

people working at these massive bases have no idea what is

going on below them. Those working at lower levels are

weighed in and out at the start and end of shifts to make

sure they don’t leave with anything more than they came

with. Some who say they have seen the lowest levels tell of

horrific scenes of human experimentation including

reptilian-human hybrids, and I have covered this at length

and quoted witnesses in The Biggest Secret and Children of

the Matrix. Insiders have said there are at least nearly 1,500

of these bases worldwide with many in the United States.

Some include Dulce and Los Alamos (where the atom bomb

was developed) in New Mexico; Pine Gap in Australia; and

China Lake Naval Air Weapons Station in California’s Mojave

Desert about 150 miles north of Los Angeles. See those

other books for further detail. There are 19,600 square miles

of restricted and controlled airspace around China Lake

which includes Edwards Air Force Base and Fort Irwin which

also have an underground component (Fig 263). Insiders say

that DUMBS and airbases are connected by an underground

tunnel and super-speed rail system built incredibly quickly

with nuclear powered technology that melts the rock to form

tunnels with smooth, glass-like walls. Remember that

whatever we may see in the public arena is light years

behind what is possible in the secret projects. I spent

months at a time in the United States on multiple occasions

in the 1990s researching these subjects and meeting

insiders and witnesses. Many over the years have described

how Grey entities have been recovered alive and dead from

the scene of crashed craft. The Roswell incident in New

Mexico in 1947 is the most famous but there are many

more. Zulu shaman Credo Mutwa tells me in the Reptilian

Agenda video of his experience of being abducted by Greys

and how they are found in the African bush where often the

military quickly arrive to take them away. He said that he

and others tried to cut into a dead Grey on one occasion

and found that the grey ‘skin’ was really a suit that was very

difficult to penetrate. Insider accounts in the United States

tell similar stories about how the outer shell of a Grey is like

a form of spacesuit to protect them from an alien

atmosphere and how the military moves in to remove ‘alien’

bodies from crash sites and all evidence of their existence.

Wright-Patterson airbase east of Dayton, Ohio, is mentioned

by insiders and witnesses as a location where they have

been at least initially taken. I have twice driven along the

road that follows the outer fence on one side of China Lake

and there is next to nothing above ground. Almost

everything is happening below the surface. China Lake is an

area once home to ancient civilisations and the nearby Coso

Canyon Range, part of which is in the restricted zone, is the

location of the Coso Rock Art District. This is an area of

some 99 square miles which contain more than 50,000

documented petroglyphs and is the biggest concentration of

rock art in the Northern Hemisphere. I have contended in

earlier books that China Lake is an underground base where

Reptilians and their Draconian ‘royalty’ operate and interact

with the US El-ite and military. I have quoted witnesses who

have seen Reptilian entities underground at China Lake

which links to a tunnel and transport system. Navy

Intelligence whistleblower William Tompkins said, after he

went public with his book in 2015, that he had visited China

Lake many times and confirms what I have said about its

Reptilian connection. I was passing through Alice Springs in

Australia’s Northern Territory in 2011 and took the chance

with some friends to drive to the mysterious Pine Gap

underground base about half an hour away which is

operated by the American military. We ignored all the turn-

back signs to see what would happen but by the time we

could see the outer entrance we were all feeling very

strange and nauseous and had to turn around. It felt like we

were being hit by some sort of electromagnetic field and the

affect took a while to wear off. As synchronicity would have

it I flew back into Alice Springs a few days later and the

landing route took us close to Pine Gap. There is little above

ground except for a few ‘golf ball’ structures (Fig 264). Many

stories tell of extraterrestrial craft activity at Pine Gap and

with good reason. People will ask why these entities don’t

just show themselves openly and rule from the seen, but

why put yourself on public display when you can currently

do what you like without any challenge because most

people laugh at the very suggestion of your existence?

There is also the problem with sunlight and our atmosphere,

although they are seeking to solve that one with the

enormous increases in atmospheric radiation from

technological sources and other changes to the atmosphere



that I will later explain. Proof of nonhuman life would also

blow wide open the human mind and sense of perception.

This is the last thing the manipulators want as they have

promoted a sense of human isolation and apartness in a

lifeless Universe.

F igure 2 6 3 : China Lake Naval Weapons Station is an underground

base where

the US military interact with Reptilians.

Technology-obsessed Reptilians The entity that

is claimed to have been contacted for five years by the

CHANI project is reported to have spoken about the

Reptilians as well as the Moon. This is the gist of what was



communicated through the computer interface:

• A reptilian race was holding back humans so they

couldn’t ‘grow’

• They had fought many battles with the reptile race in

their own reality

• Humans were more evolved than the reptiles but they

suppress humans with their technology – ‘Their God is

their technology’

F igure 2 6 4 : Pine Gap near Alice Springs, Australia. Everything else

is below

ground.

Yes, it is as we see with their connection to the Orion-

Saturn-Moon Matrix and our technological society that is

planned to culminate with transhumanism and the fusing of

the human mind with technology and artificial intelligence –

i.e. Them. I have two chapters later about this. The

Archontic mind seeks to assimilate other consciousness to

increase its potential for the creative imagination that it so

lacks. I was sent an email by someone who said he had a

near-death experience and was utterly confused by what he

saw until he heard my description of the Saturn-Moon Matrix

and its connection to the technology-obsessed Reptilians

and Greys. What he said fits with concepts of reincarnation

and Matrix entrapment that I discussed earlier. He was a

Christian who had previously not believed in any of this, but

then came the near-death experience that he described in

the email:

It was dark when I suddenly became aware. There was no

abstract thought or reasoning ... and there was no tunnel

of light ... I was just aware. The next moment I found

myself in a dimly lit room and now here’s where the

messed up part began ... I saw 2 aliens ... or Grays ... One

sitting behind a control desk of sorts and the other one

standing behind him in a doorway like big brother ... just

watching. The room behind him [was] brightly lit, but I

could still see his eyes watching me. Suddenly it occurs to

me that they are ‘monitoring’ me ... like I was just a

number. The one behind the control desk then sort of lifts

his head slightly, looks at me ... then looks back down at

his control desk. He then waves his right hand in the air,

sort of motioning over the desk in some or other gesture.

A rectangular button on the desk then starts glowing in an

orange and purple color ... almost like glitter that’s mixed

in water and shaken up I guess ... Soon as that happens

swoooosh ... I’m out in space looking at the earth ... just

hovering there ...The earth seemed round to me ... not flat

[as some are claiming today] ... Anyway, suddenly this

light-blue beam comes down out of nowhere (today I wish

I had looked where the beam came from, but I didn’t ...

just came from somewhere) and it shot down to earth. As

it hit ... I suppose the atmosphere or ozone layer of the

earth ... the beam kinda spread around the globe, like a

light blue energy shield just resonating all around the

globe ... just once. In an instant, I realized that it was

information being sent back to earth that my soul is

coming back, and the reason it resonated all around the

globe is, as I understood in an instant, like the butterfly

effect ... I’m coming back so everything else is affected.

After that, I woke up in hospital. I thought it was demons

for a long time and I was going to hell ... or ... maybe it

was just that old story of the brain excreting chemicals at

the time of death ... just a dream. But, honestly, when I

heard about the moon matrix, everything suddenly slotted

into place. What I know is this ... I saw technology I’ve

never seen before, and I’ve never heard of something like

this, so it wasn’t an idea lodged into my brain from

something I saw or read before I died. I am now convinced

that when you die, your soul is intercepted and recycled

back to earth. It goes against everything I used to believe

.

Or rather intercepted and recycled – reincarnated –

UNLESS your state of awareness and so frequency takes you

beyond their Matrix bubble. I publish that account only for

your information to make of what you will but it’s not the

first time I have heard such a theme. Humanity equates

technology with metal, plastic, wires and devices, and

biology with everything that is ‘natural’; but this is not how

the Archontic Reptilians and Greys see it. To them biological

is technological. They know this is a simulation and as such

there really isn’t anything natural except consciousness. The

human body is to them holographic/ biological technology –

a software program – projected from a waveform

information construct. This is the basis on which Reptilians

and Greys have been used as an Archontic mind conduit to

rewire the human form and infuse the counterfeit spirit or

‘original sin’. This is the background to the sons of God (the

gods, plural, in the original) who interbred with the

daughters of men. I have already pointed out that this did

not have to be done necessarily through procreation, but

could happen through manipulation of the waveform and

electrical construct. A Russian research group changed frog

embryos into salamander embryos by transmitting

salamander DNA information patterns. This is what I am

talking about. Dr Michael Levin, a researcher at Tufts

University in Massachusetts, has produced tadpoles with

eyes on their backs and frogs with six legs simply by

manipulating their electrical communication systems. It’s

horrible, but it shows how easy it is to change genetics

without sexual procreation. Levin predicts that the same

could be done with humans and allow the regrowth of lost

limbs. I have been saying this is possible for decades

because it is obvious when you realise the true nature of the

‘body’. Why would it not be possible for entities with a far

more advanced understanding of reality to mutate whole

groups of people, even humanity itself, by transmitting

signals or fields of information to the body’s DNA and other

antennae, either directly or by changes in the Cosmic

Internet? To entrap consciousness in a simulation you have

to attach awareness to the electrical/electromagnetic

construct to create an information exchange between the

two (like characters in the computer game). This is what the

body’s waveform blueprint and its decoded holographic

illusion are doing and they have been specifically twisted

and tweaked to both interface with the simulation like a

character in a computer game and to limit awareness and

frequency so we think it’s all ‘real’.

Reptilian humans A dominant component of the

human brain is referred to by scientists as the R-complex or

reptilian brain, also known as the amygdala, and this

includes the main features found in the brain of a reptile (Fig

265). I say this is connected to Archontic Reptilian breeding

programmes that changed the human form and made it far

more controllable. Cosmologist Carl Sagan wrote his book

The Dragons of Eden to highlight the fundamental effect

that our reptilian genetics (information patterns) have on

human behaviour. Those that dismiss a reptilian dimension

to human activity have no idea about reptilian genetic

influence on the human brain. A substance called

‘pheromone’ is secreted and released by animals to detect

members of the same species and pheromones in human

women and iguanas are a chemical match. Sagan said it

was unwise to ignore the reptilian component of human

nature because ‘... the model may help us understand what

human beings are really about’. He particularly emphasised

ritualistic and hierarchical behaviour connected to the

reptilian brain, and many of its traits also apply to the left-

side of the brain and Saturnian astrology. The reptilian brain

is associated, as one writer put it, with ‘obsessive

compulsive behaviour; personal day-to-day rituals and

superstitious acts; slavish conformance to old ways of doing

things; ceremonial re-enactments; obeisance [deference] to

precedent, as in legal, religious, cultural, and other matters

and all manner of deceptions’. Other reptilian brain traits

include aggression; cold-bloodedness (no empathy), a desire

for control, power, ownership, ‘territoriality’, and a belief

that might is right, winner takes all. Submission to others

can also manifest at the other rep-brain polarity depending

on personality type. This way the reptilian brain is a vehicle

for both a subservient humanity and a dominating El-ite.

Worship is another reptilian behaviour trait and the reptilian

brain is the origin of ‘primitive emotional responses’. Road

rage is triggered by the reptilian brain and other types of

‘Oh, my god, what was I thinking of?’ behaviour. This

happens because it doesn’t think, it reacts. Saturn



corresponds in Hindu Vedic astrology with the lower chakra

which represents basic survival needs and the fear of

threats to survival, and these are the traits of the reptilian

brain. We are indeed living within one big program.

F igure 2 6 5 : The reptilian brain or R-complex is a major driver of

human

behaviour.

The amygdala or reptilian brain is a perception prison and

constantly in fear as it scans the environment for threats to

survival. I don’t mean only ‘physical’ survival, but survival of

relationships, jobs, income, status, reputation, everything.

Note that – the reptilian brain generates FEAR ... food. It

also controls vital functions such as heart rate, breathing,

body temperature and balance and so when you feel fear in

any form your heart rate, breathing and body temperature

change. In extreme cases people can pass out. The reptilian

brain doesn’t want you to be different. It wants you to

conform and acquiesce to hierarchy and authority. It hates

being seen as weird and would never want to be a maverick

who thinks and acts outside of the box. If you wanted to

create a slave race that would obey and not question

authority, and be in fear of maverick behaviour while always

adhering to ‘norms’, the reptilian brain would be top of your

list. The R-complex is said to be the oldest part of the brain,

but time does not exist and genetic manipulation can

change something very quickly that would appear, in the

absence of that knowledge, to have taken aeons. I say that

before the genetic rewire the Reptilian part of the brain

either wasn’t there or was nothing like as influential, and

that this is a major access point for the Archontic mind via

its Reptilian underlings. How symbolic that in the Matrix

movies they entered the fake reality through a connection

positioned right on the reptilian brain at the lower back of

the head. In fact, I have big questions about the brain itself

as a form of control. Most people believe the brain is ‘them’

and where their thoughts and memories are, but we see

endless examples throughout ‘nature’ of information being

received, processed and communicated without any brain

involved. Near-death experiencers who leave the body and

go into expanded states of awareness compared with body

perception do so without a brain which is a mechanism for

processing information within five-sense reality – the

simulation. If you can program the brain to do that in a

certain way you control thought, behaviour and perceptions

and this is what is happening. So who created the brain, at

least as we know it today, and how does this connect with

the ‘new psyche’ that emerged 6,000 years ago? The

Archontic Reptilian force is my answer and it wasn’t to set

us free.

There is far more about the Reptilian dimension in other

books but that is a concise summary to put this part of the

story in the context of what is happening in the world today.





Now we shall focus on the Archontic Reptilian network

within global society that appears to be human, but isn’t.

This is the El-ite, also known, in part, as the ‘one percent’.

‘Every man takes the limits of his own field of vision for the

limits of the world’ – A rthur Schopenhauer I have been

writing for decades about specific bloodlines that do the

bidding of the Archontically-possessed Reptilians/Greys

within human society in the frequency band of the five

senses. These ‘bloodlines’ can be accurately described as

biological software programs which are a hybrid

combination of human and Reptilian waveform information

fields. Their Reptilian dimension means they can be far

more powerfully possessed than the general population



through their frequency connection to their hidden masters.

F igure 2 6 6 : There is no physical shapeshift because there is no

physical. It all

happens within the decoding processes of the brain.

Human energetic codes allow them to circulate

undetected within human society, but they can switch to

their Reptilian codes and take a very different form when

among their own and out of public sight. What I have

described there is the phenomenon of human-reptilian

shapeshifting, which does not mean that a physical body

changes into another physical body because there is no

physical. Hybrid bloodlines or software are really hybrid

waveform information fields, one with human codes and the



other with reptilian. Obviously, the human field is the one

they project to the world and any observer decodes that

information and sees them as human; but when the hybrid

information/DNA shifts to the reptilian or other nonhuman

field the observer sees them as reptilian or nonhuman. In

their decoded reality, it appears that someone has

shapeshifted ‘physically’ from human to nonhuman when in

fact the observer has stopped decoding one information

field and started decoding the other (Fig 266). The

appearance of ‘physical’ shapeshifting only happens in the

small region of the brain that decodes visual reality.

Shapeshifting works on the same principle as demonic

possession. In the most extreme cases the facial features of

the possessed person start to distort in the fashion of the

1973 movie, The Exorcist (Fig 267). Possession does not

mean possession of the body (hologram) but that of the

waveform energetic fields from which the hologram is

projected. During Exorcist-like possession the information

field of the possessing entity so impacts upon the energetic

field of the possessed person that their holographic

projection starts to visually reflect the possessing entity.

Observers experience this as a physical shift (Fig 268).

Shapeshifting can be triggered by ritualistic blood fests, by

extreme states of fury when the subsequent electrical

charge through the body disturbs energetic stability, and by

using their own minds to switch the codes.

F igure 2 6 7 : Shapeshifting in The Exorcist movie.



F igure 2 6 8 : As an entity infuses its waveform information field into

someone

else this begins to impact on the hologram of the possessed person

and any

observer will see their features change to reflect those of the

possessing entity.

The same process happens when human-reptilian hybrids switch

their energetic

codes.

© www.neilhague.com

Agent Smith in the Matrix movies is a great analogy for

what I am describing with regard to El-ite software

bloodlines. Smith is a software program imposing control on

humanity as dictated by the architect of the simulation. He

and his fellow agents look like humans, but they are not

human. I have said that the human body is a form of

biological software, but these El-ite versions are far more

extreme. Humans have the potential for awareness beyond

the program to infuse the body and its perception processes

and override the influence and control of the counterfeit

spirit. El-ite ‘bloodline’ software is the full-deal counterfeit

spirit with no expanded consciousness to balance and check

its empathy-deleted madness (Fig 269). They have a ‘Soul’

in the sense of electromagnetic waveform field information

codes, but they do not have Spirit in the sense of ‘Upper

Aeon’ Infinite Awareness. Gnostics described the Demiurge

and Archons as a robotic race of ‘artificial intelligence’ which

can imitate, but not innovate. Archontic representatives in

human society are going to be artificial in the same way as

expressions of a Demiurgic force that is itself artificial.

Reptilians and Greys (I will call them Archontic Reptilians for

short) are also forms of software. In this way all of them, the

Archontic distortion, Reptilians, Greys and ‘human’ software

El-ite, display psychopathic traits that include having no

empathy, remorse or shame (Fig 270). Throw in other

Archontic traits of pathological lying, doing whatever it takes

to get your way and parasiting off your targets and see what

you have – the personality and behaviour of those that

direct and control global politics, government, banking,

corporations, military, media and other institutions that

decide the direction of human society (Fig 271). What are

social media and other El-ite Internet platforms except a

means to parasite and financially exploit the creativity of

the people and often claim rights to that creativity, which is

not their own? What are banks, but a means to parasite off

the labour of the same people by lending them money that

doesn’t exist – ‘credit’ – and charging them interest? The

most important positions of power worldwide are held by

this Archontic hybrid software ‘bloodline’ network and its

human subordinates. How could anyone order the bombing

of countries to kill and maim the innocent? How could they

manipulate the financial and banking system which they

know will throw people on the street and deny them even

access to food? How could they amass ever more wealth

while billions are in poverty? Or spend more on the military



while imposing austerity? Who could possibly do all that?

Here we have the answer: Those with no capacity for

empathy or compassion because their software is

programmed not to compute such basic humanity and

expressions of Spirit (Fig 272).





F igure 2 6 9 : Archontic Reptilian human hybrids are undiluted

expressions of the

Archontic distortion and so reflect all its psychopathic character traits.

F igure 2 7 0 : Archontic traits described by Gnostics are the same as

those we

call psychopaths who are people infested by the counterfeit spirit.



F igure 2 7 1 : Why are so many ‘world leaders’ and the

political/financial/corporate El-lite so psychopathic? Now you know.

F igure 2 7 2 : We find images like this outrageous and emotionally

disturbing.

The El-ite simply laugh.

El-ite = Reptilian mind = Archontic

distortion Reptilians and Greys were again the conduit

for producing this EL-ite bloodline software which contains

Reptilian (Archontic) perception and behaviour codes to a

far greater extreme as vehicles of the undiluted counterfeit

spirit. The El-ite therefore exhibit reptilian behaviour traits

to a far greater degree – ‘obsessive compulsive behaviour;

personal day-to-day rituals and superstitious acts; slavish

conformance to old ways of doing things; ceremonial re-

enactments; obeisance [deference] to precedent, as in

legal, religious, cultural, and other matters and all manner

of deceptions’. I give you the British royal family, for a start,

if I must. This is where their obsession with ritual comes

from. Their entire life is a ritual of repeatedly visiting

locations and repeating behaviour, even down to staying in

certain palaces or castles at the same time every year.

‘Royal’ ritualism goes even deeper, however, and into dark

and horrific practices that I have exposed in The Biggest

Secret, Children of the Matrix and other books. Bloodline

software programs act as middle men and women between

Archontic Reptilians and the frequency band of human

society. Symbolically this is the same principle as scientists

(Archontic Reptilians) standing outside a sealed tank (our

reality) and working inside the tank using long gloves

(human-reptilian software conduits). See Figure 273

overleaf. The ancient concept of the ‘divine right to rule’,

the claim that so-called royalty is not subject to earthly

authority, comes from this bloodline network and the

Demiurgic/Reptilian ‘god’ connection (Fig 274). They say

their right to rule is the will of God, but this ‘God’ is the Old

Testament ‘God’ which is the Demiurgic distortion working

with its Reptilian/Grey intermediaries. Terms like ‘demi-gods’

or ‘semi-gods’ – part human, part ‘god’ – relate to this

hybrid bloodline and so do claims to be ‘God’s Chosen’.

Royal families have always interbred with other royal or

aristocratic bloodline networks and this has been explained

away as a form of extreme snobbery and perceived genetic

superiority. Well, yes, it is, but the real reason is to ensure

that the software program continues to be accurately

replicated because its information/behaviour traits can be

quickly diluted if infused with humans that are not

completely controlled by the counterfeit spirit (Fig 275).

Reptilian symbolism with royalty can be found all over the

world. I’ve mentioned the Celts with their king of kings

Great Dragon or Draco, but the connection is everywhere.

Chinese emperors claimed the right to rule as genetic

descendants of the ‘serpent gods’ and of course the dragon

remains a revered symbol across much of Asia. Indian epics

feature the reptilian and shapeshifting Nagas people, who

they say interbred with a white race to produce a reptilian



hybrid that became the Aryan kings. Bloodlines of kings in

ancient Media, now Iran and part of Turkey, were known as

Mar or snake and the ‘Dragon Dynasty of Media’, or

‘descendants of the dragon’. You find a similar theme in the

Americas and the connection between royalty and the snake

or serpent is pretty universal – see Children of the Matrix.



F igure 2 7 3 : Human-reptilian hybrids represent the Archontic force

within

human society.

© www.neilhague.com



F igure 2 7 4 : The ‘Divine right to rule’ by bloodline inheritance is

really the

Archontic Reptilian right to rule by bloodline imposition.

F igure 2 7 5 : Interbreeding between El-lite bloodline families is

essential to

protecting the Archontic Reptilian ‘software’ codes.



F igure 2 7 6 : The hybrid bloodlines made the same journey as the

new psyche

as rulers of the new psyche.

The emergence of major software bloodlines that we have

today can be identified in the Middle East in the same

period that the new psyche emerged there. They were

rulers of Egypt, Sumer and Babylon before expanding into

Europe and then globally through European empires,

especially the British (Fig 276). Research points to the

bloodlines originally moving out of Europe and Asia to settle

in the Middle East before making their return and that would

sync with the Indo-European invasion into the Middle East.

Bloodlines and the new psyche are clearly fundamentally

connected. They went on to establish the Roman Empire

and wherever they located war, control, conquest and

empire-building would follow, with indigenous peoples and

their knowledge vanquished and crushed (the new psyche in

all its glory). Kings, queens and emperors dictated

everything until populations awoke enough to reject rule by

bloodline inheritance although a few still survive. This was

the point when most of them went underground and they

have ruled ever since through rigged political systems,

financial and military might and control of information

(perception) which has included the merciless use of

religion. ‘Royal’ and aristocratic bloodlines became what I

call the Dark Suits. They may not look like royalty any

longer but that is how they still see themselves and so they

have the same arrogant belief in their right to rule. Most

countries once under colonial dictatorship appear to have

secured independence, but that is not what really happened

except on the surface. As the colonialists officially departed

they left behind their bloodlines and the secret society and

satanic networks through which they manipulate events.

These have gone on covertly controlling those countries

ever since – including the United States – through centres

such as London and Rome. I don’t mean the governments of

Britain and Italy, who are only vassals for the Hidden Hand

like all the others. I refer to the global secret society and

satanic networks that have major centres in London and

Rome, but elsewhere, too. ‘Old Europe’ for many reasons is

the centre of the bloodline global network, or has been up to

now. The British Empire never ended, it just went

underground. The United States may fire most of the bullets,

but where and when they are fired is decided by the

bloodline inner circle in Europe. If you want to hide where

the power really lies you want people looking the other way.

I am not saying that the United States is not powerful, but

ultimately the world-transforming decisions are made

elsewhere. Even Europe is only a vehicle in the end for

Archontic and Reptilian masters in the shadows to which the

bloodlines answer and dare not disobey.





F igure 2 7 7 : The hierarchy in the unseen controls the hierarchy in

the seen.



Archontic Reptilian rulers work through their human-reptilian hybrid

El-lite to

impose their will on human society and generate maximum levels of

fear.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 2 7 8 : The Spider is the Archontic Reptilian network and each

strand in

the Web is a secret society, semi-secret or publicly known

organisation or

agency all serving the interests of The Spider. The vast majority

within the Web

have no idea there is a Web or a Spider and nor the part they are

playing

themselves in enslaving humanity.

F igure 2 7 9 : Neil Hague’s representation of the Web.

The Web

Human society is manipulated by a vast interdimensional

web with a spider at the centre directing events. The

Archontic distortion dictates to nonhuman entities including

the Reptilians and Greys (collectively ‘The Spider’), who

dictate to the human-reptilian hybrid El-ite, who dictate to

the mass of humanity (Figs 277). Each strand in the Web is a

secret society, semi-secret group or an institution that we

know about, like a government department or agency, bank

or

corporation,

and

the

structure

is

fiercely

compartmentalised with different sections isolated in terms

of knowledge from the others (Figs 278 and 279). This means that only a comparatively tiny few know the whole

picture and how all the different compartmentalised

contributions fit together. The most exclusive and publicly-

unknown secret societies are closest to The Spider and only

they and those in the deepest inner circles of other societies

and groupings know that there even is a Spider let alone its

nature. As we pan out from the centre we find secret

societies that we do know which include the Freemasons,

Knights Templar, Knights of Malta, Opus Dei and the inner

sanctum of the Jesuit order. Many are connected with the

Vatican in Rome, which has been a centre for the bloodlines

since they established the Saturn-worshipping Roman

Empire. Secret societies are by their very nature

compartmentalised with only a few truly in the know. Most

Freemasons never progress higher than the bottom three

‘blue’ degrees (levels of knowledge) and those who

apparently make it to the top only know so much unless

they are El-ite insiders (Fig 280). There is a whole structure above the official secret societies which only those from the

bloodlines (with a few exceptions) are ever invited to join

(Fig 281). Next come what I call the cusp organisations in

the Web, at the point where the hidden meets the seen.

These are satellite groups answering to a Rothschild secret

society in Britain called the Round Table which was

established in the closing years of the 19th century. It was

first headed by Rothschild agent Cecil Rhodes who

plundered southern Africa on their behalf for gold, diamonds

and much else. The Balfour Declaration in 1917 which led to

the creation of Rothschild-owned Israel after the Second

World War was orchestrated through the Round Table. This

‘Declaration’ was a letter sent by British Foreign Secretary

Lord Arthur Balfour to Lord Lionel Walter Rothschild setting

out his government’s position and support for a Jewish

homeland in Palestine. History tells us about the letter, but

not about the Rothschild-created-and-funded Round Table or

that Lord Balfour was an inner-circle member. This is how

the Web works and manipulates from the shadows. Round

Table satellites include ‘think tanks’ like the Bilderberg

Group, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral

Commission, the Club of Rome and the Royal Institute of

International Affairs (Fig 282). Their role is to bring people

together from the world of politics, business, banking,

military, intelligence and media to coordinate a common

agreement and policy (Spider policy) across different

countries and institutions. The ‘cusp’ group inner circles

know what the game is up to a point, but many of the

attendees will be clueless about the really big picture. The

Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), like the Trilateral

Commission, was established by the El-ite Rockefeller

family. CFR manipulators and members have driven much of

American foreign policy since it was formed in New York in

1921. From the cusp groupings we enter the world of the

seen – governments and their departments and agencies,

banking and corporate giants, mainstream media and so on.

Most people believe this is where decision-making starts,

but in truth it is only where it ends in new laws and changes

in society. Those decisions were first made deep in the Web

far away from public scrutiny. The leaders that implement

them are ultimately decided by The Spider by direct

appointment, manipulating people into office that suit their

plans in a certain period, or by blocking the desired actions

of the rare few who slip through into power that The Spider

would rather not be there (Fig 283). In this way a highly-

coordinated plan for the transformation of human society

into a centralised Orwellian dictatorship can be orchestrated

by The Spider long in advance while the public believe that

everything is happening as a result of random decisions,

choices and circumstances. This is absolutely not the case

as I will show (Fig 284). The Web is holographic in that every

part of the whole is a smaller version of the whole. Each

level is structured in the same way whether global, national

or local. For example, I live on the Isle of Wight off the south

coast of England which is only 23 miles by 13 miles with a

population of around 140,000. The island is manipulated by

a criminal group known locally as the Island Mafia which

control the many Freemasonic lodges, the local council,

media, a massive drug-running operation, social services

and satanic and paedophile rings. This Mafia gets away with

it because law enforcement and the local media are a

combination of the utterly and completely corrupt, and

those who know it is easier to turn a blind eye than make a

stand for what is right. Corrupt and gutless people have

always been the means for the corrupt and gutless El-ite to

prevail at all levels of the Web. This multi-leveled

holographic structure means that the centre of the global

Web can manipulate right down into local communities like

the Isle of Wight through its pathetic gofers, who are all

terrified of those above them while acting the Big I Am to

those below. The Web has been constructed piece by piece

as the bloodlines and their hidden masters infiltrated every

aspect of human life, with especial focus on the control of

esoteric information which had the potential to awaken

humanity to its plight. The ancient Babylonian sacrificial

religion of the new psyche infiltrated and took over the



Mystery schools which were communicating esoteric

information in a more positive way and deliberately inverted

and distorted its meaning. Egypt was a major example of

this. American Freemasonic historian Manly P. Hall (1901-

1990)

wrote

in

Secret

Teachings

of



All

Ages:

F igure 2 8 0 : Compartmentalisation of knowledge within

Freemasonry and other

secret societies mirrors the structure of the Web itself.

F igure 2 8 1 : There is another highly-compartmentalised structure

that most

initiates of secret societies don’t know about. Chosen people –

almost entirely

bloodline – progress through the top of known secret societies into

this elite

structure and that is where the real action happens and the real

knowledge is



retained.

F igure 2 8 2 : Some of the ‘cusp’ organisations in that part of the Web

where the

hidden meets the seen.



F igure 2 8 3 : How political leaders are really ‘chosen’.



F igure 2 8 4 : The Spider’s little helpers. A few know this while the

enormous

majority do not.

While the elaborate ceremonial magic of antiquity was not

necessarily evil, there arose from its perversion several

false schools of sorcery, or black magic. Egypt, a great

center of learning and the birthplace of many arts and

sciences,

furnished

an

ideal

environment

for

transcendental experimentation. Here the black magicians

... continued to exercise their superhuman powers until

they had completely undermined and corrupted the

morals of the primitive Mysteries.

By establishing a sacerdotal caste they usurped the

position formerly occupied by the initiates, and seized the

reins of spiritual government. Thus black magic dictated

the state religion and paralyzed the intellectual and

spiritual activities of the individual by demanding his

complete and unhesitating acquiescence in the dogma

formulated by the priestcraft. The Pharaoh became a

puppet in the hands of the Scarlet Council – a committee

of arch-sorcerers elevated to power by the priesthood.

In those two paragraphs, you have a description of how

governments and institutions are controlled to this day by

Satanists and black magicians who manipulate from an

understanding

of

reality

while

suppressing

that

understanding for everyone else. Those that you see are

only puppets of those you do not see in the form of these

Satanists and black magicians that manipulate the minds

and perceptions of their targets. Knowledge about the true

nature of reality and the existence of Archontic Reptilian

masters in the hidden realms had to be suppressed and to

do that they had to control who was allowed to know (El-ite

assets) and who was not (the rest of the population).

Knowledge was twisted and inverted where it wasn’t

censored altogether by abominations like the Inquisition.

Hall writes:

These sorcerers then began the systematic destruction of

all keys to the ancient wisdom, so that none might have

access to the knowledge necessary to reach adeptship

without first becoming one of their order. They mutilated

the rituals of the Mysteries while professing to preserve

them, so that even though the neophyte passed through

the degrees he could not secure the knowledge to which



he was entitled. Idolatry was introduced by encouraging

the worship of the images which in the beginning the wise

had erected solely as symbols for study and meditation.

I have heard it said that some El-ite symbols were

considered positive in the ancient world. This is true, but

they have been twisted and inverted in their meaning. Hall

went on:

False interpretations were given to the emblems and

figures of the Mysteries, and elaborate theologies were

created to confuse the minds of their devotees. The

masses, deprived of their birthright of understanding and

groveling in ignorance, eventually became the abject



slaves of the spiritual impostors.

Superstition universally prevailed and the black magicians

completely dominated national affairs, with the result that

humanity still suffers from the sophistries of the [ancient

occult] priestcrafts ...

Out of this came human religions. They are a distortion,

inversion and twisting of ancient knowledge to create

prisons for the mind (and emotions).

F igure 2 8 5 : Far from every Jewish person supports Israel – not all

Jews are

Zionists and not all Zionists are Jews.

F igure 2 8 6 : This is where the overwhelming majority of Jewish

people come

from – not biblical Israel but Khazaria in the Caucasus.

Sabbatean Zionism This brings me to the central

role played in the Archontic Web today by Zionism and its

worship of the Old Testament ‘God’. Secret societies and

inverted esoteric networks can take many forms and not all

of them are obvious to the observer. Rothschild-created

Zionism is far from what it appears to be even to most

Jewish people. Zionism is a tool of the House of Rothschild

to manipulate world events and the direction of human

society. First of all, Zionism is not a race but a political

philosophy that is vehemently opposed by many religious

Jews (Fig 285). You don’t have to be Jewish to be a Zionist

either. You are only required to support its claims and

political stance which are based on an allegedly historic

right to a Jewish homeland in Palestine which the Zionist

hierarchy (the Rothschilds ultimately) wrongly claim is their

birthright and promised to them by ‘God’. Jewish historians

and scholars such as Shlomo Sand, Professor of History at

Tel Aviv University, in his book, The Invention of the Jewish

People, have revealed that today’s Jews overwhelmingly

originate from the Khazar Empire in the Caucasus region

where we now have southern Russia and Georgia (Fig 286). I

have covered this story at length in other books. The

Khazars had no historical connection to the biblical land of

Israel, but converted en masse to Judaism during the reign

of King Bulan in about 740 AD. The Khazarian king was

called the ‘Khagan’ or ‘Kagan’ which is why this is such a

common Jewish name today. With the collapse of the Khazar

Empire they moved north into what is now Ukraine,

Hungary, Lithuania, Russia and Poland before many headed

into Germany and other countries of Western Europe. These

were the Jews targeted by the Nazis and the survivors

relocated in large numbers after the war to Palestine and

the United States where the great majority of Jewish people

live today. Their historical connection to biblical Israel is

basically zilch. The whole basis of Zionism’s claim to the

land of Palestine is that God gave it to them and God told us

this in an Old Testament written by who knows who, who



knows when in who knows what circumstances. Israel’s

communications minister Tzachi Hanegbi said the Bible

alone is enough to prove that his country has legitimate

claims to the land:

Defense is important and security is important but the

most important thing is the moral claim of Israel and we

are committed to living in our regional land, land that was

given to us ... by the Bible ... And this is the right, which

we are going to demand our right forever and ever.

F igure 2 8 7 : To understand Israel and all that it is does is to

understand this

simple fact.

Zionism and the fairy tales on which this narrative is

founded are a House of Rothschild secret society creation.

The Rothschilds orchestrated the post-war mass Jewish

relocation to Palestine and everything that has followed.

Zionism is really Rothschildism (Fig 287). Zionist (Rothschild)

networks include distorted versions of traditional Judaism

and Islam which I will come to in a moment. Zionism may

appear to be a political movement related to the creation

and continued existence of Israel, but at its core it is a

secret society representing the interests of the Rothschilds

and the Web. Jewish people as a whole are as irrelevant to

these Zionist insiders as the rest of the global population.

Only two to three percent of Americans are Jewish and the

great majority of them will not know that Zionism is a secret

society masquerading as a political and racial belief system.

They support Zionism because they support Israel and they

think Zionism relates to their Jewish religion. No, it doesn’t.

Among the two to three percent are also those Jews that

vehemently oppose Israel, its treatment of the Palestinians

and all that it stands for. This leaves only a small section of

the Jewish community that knowingly serve the secret

society, and it is these initiates that appear in dramatically

higher ratio to their number in politics (usually as ‘advisors’,

administrators and backers), banking, business, Hollywood,

media and in so many other key areas. Secret society

Zionism is also known as ‘Revisionist Zionism’, an ideology

founded on violence by Russian Jew Ze’ev (Vladimir)

Jabotinsky in the 1920s, who pledged to seize Palestine with

an ‘iron wall of Jewish bayonets’. Today they use high-tech

missiles. Jabotinsky (1880-1940) set out to ‘create, with

sweat and blood, a race of men, strong, brave and cruel’

that would impose a Greater Israel from the River Nile in

Egypt to the Euphrates in Iraq and known to Jews as Eretz

Yisrael. This describes the largest expanse of alleged biblical

Israel. Jewish scientist Albert Einstein and other prominent

Jews sent a letter to The New York Times in 1948 describing

Irgun, a Revision Zionism enforcement arm, as ‘terrorist’

and ‘right wing’ and founded on ‘ultranationalism, religious

mysticism and racial superiority’. The letter described the

Israeli party representing the Zionist Revisionist movement



as ‘closely akin in its organization, methods, political

philosophy and social appeal to the Nazi and Fascist

parties’. This is the ideology that controls Israel today with

the House of Rothschild holding the strings. Brutal Israel

Prime Ministers Menachem Begin (who won the Nobel Peace

Prize), Yitzhak Shamir, Ariel Sharon and now Benjamin

Netanyahu all gleaned their ideology from that of Jabotinsky

(Netanyahu’s father was his personal assistant). This

ideology is based on unrestrained and unrelenting violence

to impose the Zionist will.

F igure 2 8 8 : Sabbatai Zevi.

The Zionist secret society is not an expression of Judaism,

but Sabbateanism and Frankism which are absolutely not

the same thing. These names come from Sabbatai Zevi

(1626–1676), a rabbi who proclaimed he was the Jewish

messiah, and the Polish Jew Jacob Frank (1726-1791) who

said he was the reincarnation of ‘messiah’ Sabbatai Zevi

and biblical patriarch Jacob (Figs 288 and 289). Zevi, an occultist and black magician, led what is described as the

biggest messianic movement in Jewish history as he

promised to return them to a homeland in Palestine. He

converted to Islam after basically being given the choice by

the Sultan of the Turkey-based Ottoman Empire between

conversion, or torture and death. Hundreds of his followers

did the same and became known as ‘Dönmeh’ which means

‘to turn’. These are defined as ‘crypto-Jews’ who, like

Sabbatai Zevi, publicly converted to Islam but retained their

Jewish beliefs or at least a version of Jewish beliefs. Dönmeh

were forbidden to marry outside of their sect. They became

powerful in the politics and business of Salonica (today

called Thessalonica or Thessaloniki in Greek Macedonia in

the southern Balkans). Salonica was a major centre for

Freemasonry and the birthplace of the Young Turk

movement which overthrew Ottoman Islamic rule in Turkey.

The movement emerged out of secret societies and

‘progressive’ students and military cadets and established

the Republic of Turkey in 1923 under its first president

Mustafa Kemal, who is far better known as ‘Atatü rk’. He was

a Grand Orient Freemason (the El-ite version) in the Lodge

Veritas in Salonica and worked as a British agent in the

breakup of the Ottoman Empire, according to Lord Patrick

Kinross in his book, Ataturk, The Rebirth of a Nation. Lodge

Veritas received its Freemasonic warrant from the Grand

Orient of France. Atatü rk’s background and racial origins

have been described as a ‘vexed question’ and a mystery

still to be solved. There were consistent rumours in Turkey

that he was Jewish, and Jews in Salonica said that he was a

Dönmeh, the ‘crypto-Jew’ followers of Sabbatai Zevi. His

father certainly sent him to the Ş emsi Efendi Dönmeh

school in Salonica and a 1994 article by Israeli journalist

Hillel Halkin in The Jewish Daily Forward reported a

conversation between Jewish journalist Itamar Ben-Avi and





Mustafa Kemal (Ataturk) in 1911 at the Kamenitz Hotel in

Jerusalem. Ben-Avi described how an intoxicated Ataturk

claimed to descend from Sabbatai Zevi and how his father

had told him to read an antique Hebrew Bible. It would

certainly appear from other sources that Ataturk was in

Jerusalem

at

that

time.

Hillel

Halkin

wrote:

F igure 2 8 9 : Jacob Frank.

The Turkish government, which for years has been fending

off Muslim fundamentalist assaults on its legitimacy and

on the secular reforms of Ataturk, has little reason to

welcome the news that the father of the ‘Father of the

Turks’ was a crypto-Jew who passed on his anti-Muslim

sentiments to his son. Mustafa Kemal’s secret is no doubt

one that it would prefer to continue to be kept.

F igure 2 9 0 : Satanists and Sabbatean Frankists desire an inverted

society to

reflect their inverted symbolism.

Emmanuel Carasso, one of the leaders of the Young Turk

revolution that put Atatü rk in power, came from a Jewish

family in Salonica and pioneered Freemasonry within the

Ottoman Empire. Such was the impact of the revolutionaries

that the term ‘Young Turk’ is still used to describe someone

who is ‘progressive’, rebellious, revolutionary and

demanding radical reform. Today’s progressives who serve

the El-ite agenda while thinking they are challenging the

Establishment can therefore be described as ‘Young Turks’.

The Dönmeh religion within a religion continues within Islam

today and its influence and manipulation can be seen on the

television news hour by hour for reasons I will come to.

Sabbatai Zevi proclaimed his messiahship for very practical

reasons. It gave him the perceived authority to overturn

traditional Judaism and invert everything. A day of fasting,

for example, became a day of feasting and so it went on. He

rejected traditional religious teachings and laws, sexual

taboos and the concept of right and wrong (a mentality

encompassed by Jabotinsky’s Revisionist Zionism and by

Satanism). Zevi convinced his followers that doing evil was

to be encouraged and celebrated and he argued against

feelings of guilt (again, a mentality encompassed by

Jabotinsky’s Revisionist Zionism and by Satanism). He was

promoting the Archontic perceptual state of no compassion

or empathy. Sabbateanism, or Sabbatianism, is a modern

version of the religion of Sumer and Babylon and can be

likened in its beliefs and sacrificial practices to today’s

Satanism because in many ways it is today’s Satanism. This

was Einstein’s ‘religious mysticism’ in his condemnation of

Revisionist Zionism. The same was true of the Frankism of

Jacob Frank, another occultist and black magician who

claimed to be the reincarnated Zevi. Frankism involved

human and animal sacrifices and declares that ‘Lucifer’ (the

Archontic force) is the true god. You can appreciate why

some have dubbed what I will call Sabbatean Frankism as

the ‘Synagogue of Satan’. Frankists or Sabbatean Frankists

were told ‘Do What Thou Wilt’. The philosophy of anything

goes is at the centre of all that they do. This ‘anything’

includes paedophilia, sacrifice and incest. Depravity to

Frankists is a form of worship while compassion and

empathy are sacrilege. The El-ite language of symbolism

expresses this system of reversal or inversion. What means

one thing to the general population means the opposite to

the El-ite. A dove is a symbol of peace to the public but the

opposite to Sabbatean Frankists and other Satanists. Classic

Satanic/Sabbatean Frankist symbols include the inverted

pentagram and the inverted cross and what a symbol

represents will generate its energetic state and frequency

(Fig 290). I have been describing human society as inverted

with everything upside down and this is why. Our world is

controlled and manipulated by those for whom the reversal

and inversion of everything good is their very religion. Rabbi

Marvin Antelman describes Frankism in his book, To

Eliminate the Opiate, as ‘a movement of complete evil’ and

Jewish professor Gershom Scholem says this about Frank in

The Messianic Idea in Judaism: ‘In all his actions [he was] a

truly corrupt and degenerate individual ... one of the most

frightening phenomena in the whole of Jewish history.’

Traditional Jewish rabbis excommunicated Frank and his

followers as heretics but they continued to operate

underground and behind the scenes in a campaign of

infiltration. This is one reason why many traditional Jewish

believers so oppose Zionism today. They see it a fraudulent

version of their faith. Jewish believers all have the ‘God’s

Chosen People’ deal, but not with the extremes of inner-core



Revisionist Zionism and its advocates. Frank formed an

alliance in 1773 with Mayer Amstel Rothschild, founder of

the Rothschild financial dynasty out of Frankfurt, Germany,

and with the Jesuit-educated Jew, Adam Weishaupt, who

founded the Bavarian Illuminati in 1776. This would be

involved in massive political manipulation including the

French Revolution and today under other names and in

other forms this network manipulates global governments,

banking, corporations, media and entertainment industry,

and is a predominant force directing events through the

Web within five-sense reality.

F igure 2 9 1 : Islamic State: Saudi-armed-and-funded bunch of prats.

Where ‘ISIS’ really came from ...

Sabbatean Frankism (inner core secret society Revisionist

Zionism) went on to seize control of the Roman Church and

Freemasonry with the Grand Orient version top of the list

(see Ataturk). Sabbateans and Frankists converted to other

religions to infiltrate their power structure in ways that

mimicked the followers of Sabbatai Zevi within Islam.

Sabbatean Frankism and Satanism are only different names

for the same Archontic forces that took over Egypt, Sumer

and Babylon in the way that Manly P. Hall describes, and so

the same methods and techniques are employed. We see a

modern-day expression of this infiltration with the vile and

violent distortion of traditional Islam known as Wahhabism

which is practiced (enforced) in Saudi Arabia and by Saudi-

funded terrorist groups like ISIS or Islamic State (Fig 291).

Saudi Arabian and ISIS beheadings and mass murders are

satanic sacrifices and death rituals (Fig 292). The plan is to

destroy all other religions and leave only a one world

religion – Sabbatean Frankism, also known as Satanism and

Wahhabism, worshipping the Archontic distortion. Advocates

of Judaism, Islam, Christianity and all religions or no

religions need to come together and realise we are all being

targeted by the same force. Iraqi intelligence documents

found by the American military after the invasion of Iraq in

2003 include one from the General Military Intelligence

Directorate dated 2002 and titled ‘The Emergence of

Wahhabism and its Historical Roots’. The author is named as

Intelligence Colonel Sa’id Mahrnud Najrn Al-’Arniri who

writes about ‘the enemies of Islam who use the Al-Wahabi

Movement in the political arena to prevent the unity of

Muslims’. He goes on:

Al-Wahabi today is subconsciously working in all its power

on promoting occupation in order to achieve its despicable

desires. The Wahabis have worn the Muslim robe inside

out therefore; they couldn’t apprehend any of the Muslim

goals, because how is it possible for someone who seeks

the help of infidels to speak of unity?

They sign treaties of peace and friendship with the

criminals, surrender and bow in front of the masters of

rotten politics. Therefore; I wanted in my study to focus on

the history of this movement from the stand point of its



relation with the British government and how Britain had

employed all its spies in Muslim countries in order to

establish and spread this movement to destroy Muslim

religion and create heterodoxies in Islam.

F igure 2 9 2 : A Saudi Arabian beheading? Or is it Isis? They behave

the same

because one created the other with serious support from America

and Britain.

The document quotes from the alleged autobiography of a

British spy called ‘Hempher’ which describes how the British

government (then Empire) sought to create an extreme and

distorted version of Islam for purposes of divide and rule

and in the middle of the 18th century chose as its front man

a chap called Muhammad ibn ͑Abd al-Wahhab. ‘Hempher’

claimed that Wahhab was chosen because of his ‘many

attributes such as the love of glory, immorality and extreme

views’. Thus ‘Wahhabism’ was born and anyone under its

control who did not accept its laws and impositions was to

be killed. Wahhabism loves a massacre (blood ritual) and it

started early and has never stopped. The same goes for its

inspiration Sabbatean Frankism. The Iraqi document

describes how the British told Wahhab to make an alliance

with Muhammad bin Saud who created the first Saudi state

before he died in 1765 and whose family successors formed

the current Saudi Arabia in cohorts with their British and

American masters in 1932. In doing so they hijacked Islam’s

major religious centres in Mecca and Medina. Wahhab’s

daughter married bin Saud’s son and it would appear that

both families were not Arabic, but Dönmeh ‘crypto-Jews’.

The collaboration between British agent Hempher and

Wahhab is also described by Ottoman writer and Turkish

naval admiral Ayyub Sabri Pasha in his work, The Beginning

and Spreading of Wahhabism. The plot thickens (or actually



gets much clearer) when the Iraqi intelligence report

includes Arabic texts saying that Abdul Wahhab and

Muhammad bin Saud were Jewish. It sources the following

from an Arabic work by D. Mustafa Turan called The Dönmeh

Jews:

Muhammad Bin ‘Abd-al-Wahhab is a descendent of a

family from the Jews of AI-Dunamah in Turkey. Al-Dunmah

[Dönmeh] refers to the Jews who declared their

embracement of Islam in an effort to insult Islam and to

escape the pursuit by the Ottoman sultans ... [Turan]

confirms that Sulayman; the grandfather of [Wahhab], is

(Shulman); he is a Jew from the merchants of the city of

Burstah in Turkey, he had left it and settled in Damascus,

grew his beard, and wore the Muslim turban, but was

thrown out for being voodoo.

Then he fled to Egypt and he [was] faced [with] strong

objection so he left to Hijaz and settled in Al-‘Ayniyyah

where he got married and had a child whom he called

‘Abd-al-Wahab and claimed to be from the descent of

Rabi’iyyah, and that he was born in Morocco.

F igure 2 9 3 : This is the background to why Saudi Arabia and Israel

are so

remarkably close when the opposite would be expected.

The document notes that the same story is told by writer

Rifat Salim Kabar in The Dönmeh Jews and the Origin of the

Saudi Wahhabis. Muhammad ibn Abdul Wahhab as a

descendant of a family of Dönmeh Jews from Turkey

certainly makes sense of current events and why Saudi-

armed-and-funded

Wahhabi

terrorist

movements

overwhelmingly kill other Muslims. The Saudi-Israel-US-UK

Sabbatean Frankist connection explains why the four of

them are so close and the enormity of arms shipments to

the Saudis by America and Britain (Fig 293). Donald Trump

announced on his visit to Riyadh in 2017 that terrorist-

supporting Saudi Arabia was to be the Middle East centre for

‘fighting terrorism’, in a move that was simply taking the

piss. The Iraqi intelligence report quotes the assertion by

Abdul Wahhab Ibrahim Al-Shammari in The Wahhabi

Movement, The Truth and Roots that the House of Saud fake

royals are descended from Mordechai bin Ibrahim bin Mushi,

a Jewish merchant from Basra in Iraq. Claims about a House

of Saudi ‘family tree’ going back to the Prophet Muhammad

are a joke. The document says that David Shakespeare, a

Jewish British officer, worked during World War I with Saudi

King Abdulaziz bin Abdul Rahman, better known in the West

as Ibn Saud, to plot the defeat of other Arab leaders on the

Arabian Peninsula who had rejected the British plan for the

region that included a Jewish homeland in Palestine. This

followed in the wake of the ‘Balfour Declaration’ giving

British government support for a Jewish homeland in

Palestine which was so transparently orchestrated by the



Rothschild Round Table for anyone who cares to research

the background. Britain told the people of Palestine via their

military officer Thomas Edward Lawrence ‘Lawrence of

Arabia’ that they would be given independence if they

helped the British remove the Turkish Ottoman Empire from

the region, but all along that land was designated for Jews

from Europe. The so-called House of Saud supported the

British agenda at the expense of the non-Wahhabi

Palestinians. British money and military support ensured

that Ibn Saud prevailed and violently imposed Wahhabism,

their grotesque subversion of traditional Islam, on the entire

Arabian Peninsula. Why do Britain and the United States

support the Saudi ‘royal’ family no matter what they do and

arm them to the teeth to kill real Muslims? Now you know.

ISIS, the creation of Saudi Arabia, the US, UK and Israel, is

the military wing of Wahhabism (Fig 294).

F igure 2 9 4 : ISIS is all fakery and the rank and file idiots are caught

in a deadly

game they do not understand.

Sabbatean Frankism and its networks today control

Freemasonry, the Jesuits, Knights Templar, Knights of Malta

and Opus Dei, and all the secret and semi-secret strands

that connect with them. These include the Bilderberg Group,

the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission,

the Club of Rome and so on. That is not to say that

everyone involved with these groups and organisations is a

Sabbatean Frankist. Most will not be, but they ultimately call

the shots. Sabbatean Frankists, secret society Zionism and

the Rothschilds are fake ‘Jews’ who have been misleading

almost the entirety of the world’s Jewish population. They

are the real power behind Israel with its Rothschild/Saturn

flag. The Rothschilds paid for the construction of the

Knesset, the Israeli parliament, and the Supreme Court

building and arranged for the mass migration of German

Jews into Palestine after World War II on the back of the

Balfour Declaration. Zionism at its inner core is a Sabbatean

Frankist secret society serving the interests not of Jewish

people, but of Revisionist Zionism (see Rothschild) and The

Spider. Revisionist Zionism is to the Jewish religion what

Wahhabism is to Islam and both Revisionist Zionism and

Wahhabism are ultimately controlled by the same network

based in Israel with operational centres in the US, UK, Rome

and elsewhere. Take away Jewish people who oppose

Zionism and the majority who call themselves Zionists

without knowing what it really means and you are left with a

ridiculously small number – in a world Jewish population of

only around 15 million – who are members of the Sabbatean

Frankism-controlled Zionist inner core and answer to the

House of Rothschild. I have called them in other books

‘Rothschild Zionists’. From this relative handful of secret

society Revisionist Zionists the personnel are recruited (as I

expose in The Perception Deception) to fill so many

positions of political, corporate and financial power,

especially in the United States, at such an extraordinary

ratio to their numbers. This is not for the benefit of the mass

of Jewish people, but to advance the agenda of The Spider,

to which Jews are as expendable as anyone else. It is worth

keeping in mind as world events unfold that Israel =

Rothschild = Sabbatean Frankism = Satanism = The Spider.

You can read the detailed story of Sabbateanism and

Frankism (Satanism) in Rabbi Antelman’s book, To Eliminate

the Opiate.

Archontic Reptilian Paedophiles I have been

highlighting since the 1990s the connection between the

Reptilian-hybrid bloodline network and both Satanism and

paedophilia which are central to Sabbatean Frankism just as

they were in Babylon and Rome (Babylon relocated). The

scale of child sexual abuse generally is stunning and far

beyond what most people can comprehend, but it is, per-

capita, most concentrated in the ‘upper’ levels of the

bloodline hierarchy for reasons that can be explained. I

spent 1996 to 2006 in particular intensely researching El-ite

paedophilia, Satanism and mind control which are all

connected. We need to always remember that the

bloodlines are software programs – biological vehicles for

the counterfeit spirit to dictate events within human five-

sense perception. The empathy-deleted counterfeit spirit

drives their actions and behaviour and so they coldly

impose war, deprivation, misery and ... fear. They are, to

use the term of the ages, possessed. This has been the case

since the bloodline software was inserted into the simulation

and here the Sufi mystic Rumi describes the consequences

of possession in the 13th century:

When a man is possessed by an evil spirit the qualities of

humanity are lost in him. Whatever he says is really said

by that spirit, though it seems to proceed from his mouth.

When the spirit has this rule and dominance over him the

agent is the property of the spirit, and not himself. His self

has departed and he has become the spirit.

Gnostics would have said become the counterfeit spirit.

When you observe the El-ite and the one percent – or far

less than one-percent – you are looking at incarnations of

the Archontic force and Archontic Reptilians using bloodline

biological software as their cover. Observe their actions

when compared with how Gnostic manuscripts describe

Demiurgic-Archontic character traits. World events can then

be seen in a very different light. Without the influence of

Upper Aeon awareness, they have no compassion to limit

what they do and experience no emotional consequences

for doing it. Their tears are confined to how something

affects them and not for those who suffer from their actions.

This computer-like (software-like) lack of emotion means

they have to ‘act’ their emotions and compassion to hide

the truth that they don’t have any. The badly-acted fake

emotion of people like the Clintons and Tony Blair come

immediately to mind and the British Queen doesn’t even

bother acting. Observe the then Prime Minister Blair with his

rehearsed ‘people’s princess’ speech after Princess Diana

died in 1997 and the Queen’s public address on the same

subject a few days later. One was acting emotion

(embarrassingly badly) and the other didn’t even try. This

inability to feel compassion and empathy leads to bombing

the innocent while feeling nothing for those suffering the

consequences. The term ‘heartless’ was made for them. I

was interested to read an article detailing the experiences

of Swiss clairvoyant, Anton Styger. I have been told by many

visual psychics/mediums around the world how they often

see an ethereal reptilian entity ‘overshadowing’ members of

the political and financial El-ite. I remember Hillary Clinton

being mentioned a few times. Clairvoyants are able to peer

further into reality than most people normally do and see

what is happening at frequencies hidden to the rest of the

population. Anton Styger said:

When I see people in business or politics who are

particularly trapped by the material world, for example, I

notice that they no longer have any light bodies at all. In

many of these people, the point of light at the heart

chakra, which is otherwise always present, is no longer

visible to me.

Instead, I see something like a layer of ‘shiny tar’ around

them in which a monstrous being in the shape of a lizard

can be distinguished. When such people speak on

television, for example, I see a crocodile shape

manifesting itself around the person like in a concave

mirror; I don’t see the light of their throat and forehead

chakra.

No light at the heart chakra leads to heartless behaviour.

This is cause and effect because their possessed five-sense

mind is isolated in complete subordination to the counterfeit

spirit. As the ‘ayahuasca’ voice in Brazil asked me in 2003: If

you programmed a computer to abuse a child would it have

any emotional consequences for doing so? Untold and

shocking numbers of children worldwide have experienced

precisely this phenomenon. What better definition of

‘heartless’ can there be than sexually and violently abusing

children? The reason for such a concentration of

paedophiles among the El-ite is that the energy of children

before puberty is the most prized by Archons and Archontic

Reptilians (Fig 295). Puberty is a time of hormonal change,

but this is triggered by energetic information change in the

waveform field. Archons want the energy of children before

that change happens because of its purity and for other

reasons. While the possessed paedophile is abusing a child

the possessing entity is using the paedophile as an

energetic conduit to draw off the child’s energy and life-

force. This is happening worldwide and Central American

shaman Don Juan Matus said:

... Sorcerers see infant human beings as strange luminous

balls of energy, covered from the top to the bottom with a

glowing coat, something like a coat of plastic adjusted

tightly around the cocoon of energy. This glowing coat of

awareness is what the predators consume and when a

human reached adulthood, all that is left of that fringe

awareness is a narrow fringe that goes from the ground to

the top of the toes. That fringe permits mankind to keep

on living, but only barely.



F igure 2 9 5 : The big secret about why there are so many

paedophiles among

the El-lite.

This is the energy they take from children via their

possessed paedophiles and why paedophilia and its

connected Satanism infests the El-ite and their networks.

Paedophile rings of the rich and famous that I and others

were exposing in the 1990s have since come to public

attention. This has especially happened in Britain in the

wake of the revelations about BBC ‘entertainer’, disc-jockey

and record-breaking paedophile Jimmy Savile. One of those I

named in The Biggest Secret in 1998 was former Prime

Minister Edward Heath who was also a child-sacrificing

Satanist (Fig 296). Heath had the passage from the book

read to him in the week of publication seven years before he

died while he was still a Member of Parliament and he did

nothing. Another 17 years passed before a police

investigation began into Heath’s horrendous activities when

witnesses came forward. What I had been told about Heath

did not surprise me after my own experience with him in

1989 at the London Sky News studio where I was being

interviewed as a national spokesman for the Green Party on

an EU election results programme. When I arrived I was

taken into a make-up room and told that someone would be

along in a moment to see me. I thought I had been left

alone, but then as I sat down facing the wall of mirrors

something caught my eye and there hidden behind an open

door was Edward Heath who had just been interviewed and

was waiting for his make-up to be removed. I said ‘hello’ but

Heath did not even acknowledge me. He gave me a long

inquisitive look that seemed to say ‘Mmmm, what’s this?’

Heath continued to stare intently without speaking and his

eyes moved to the top of my head and slowly scanned down

to my feet and back again. It was the weirdest experience

and about to get weirder. At one point as his eyes were

‘scanning’ they turned jet black. I mean all of them,

including the whites. I was looking at two black holes and at

no point was there a point to make ‘eye contact’ in the

sense that the blackness seemed to have no end and

continued through him into wherever. His ‘eyes’ returned to

normal and he turned away to look at the mirror in front of

him. Not a word was spoken the entire time. I didn’t say

anything publicly about this at first because you question if

you actually saw what you appeared to see, but later I

began to come across stories and accounts from around the

world about the ‘black-eyed people’ when the same

experience was being described (Fig 297). Heath was one

evil human being and controlled by an Archontic force not of

this world. The Hidden Hand and elements of its media have

since been working to trash and block the truth about Heath

and other political figures and prevent widespread public

acceptance about what is going on. They are not too





bothered when children’s home staff are exposed, lower

level clergy, football coaches and so on, because they are

no threat to exposing the El-ite structures founded on

paedophilia and Satanism. Once those are in danger of

exposure the drawbridge is immediately in an upright

position. Many police officers have revealed how their

investigations into child abuse rings were stopped by

‘superiors’ the moment a famous politician was found to be

involved while others, as in Belgium and the island of Jersey,

have been fired or suspended because they were actively

and genuinely seeking the truth.

F igure 2 9 6 : Jimmy Savile with UK Prime Minister Ted Heath. Savile

procured

children for Heath to abuse and murder often sacrificially.

F igure 2 9 7 : Edward Heath and the black-eyed people.

One of the ways that El-ite paedophilia is systematically

discredited is by bringing ‘witnesses’ who have not been

abused to public attention to tell false stories, and by

exploiting those who have been abused but are so

psychologically damaged they will name anyone they are

encouraged to. These claims are then exposed as fraudulent

to discredit accounts of the genuinely abused naming

genuine perpetrators. Watch also for some who claim to be

exposing paedophilia and supporting the abused while

behaving in ways that discredit the whole child abuse

exposure arena. Some do so with the specific intent of

blocking exposure while others have a negative impact

because they think it’s all about them and their own

agenda. One gobshite in the UK comes immediately to

mind. When governments are forced by public outrage into

launching ‘inquiries’ into allegations of El-ite paedophile

rings they make sure they go nowhere. This has been done

multiple times in the UK. The ‘inquiry’ announced by

Theresa May who was then Home Secretary and later Prime

Minister is an obvious case. This was supposed to

investigate multiple claims of a paedophile ring centred on

the Westminster Parliament among many other things, but

May proceeded to name as heads of the inquiry people with

glaring conflicts of interest or who were completely

hopeless. Their subsequent resignations, and media

attempts to undermine the inquiry’s credibility, led to years

of inaction which threatened to drive it into oblivion. I have

greater confidence in the inquiry’s fourth chairwoman,

Professor Alexis Jay, who appears to be far more like the up-

and-at-‘em warrior for truth that abuse survivors need to

secure some justice at last. Jay said: ‘Strong vested interests

would like to see this inquiry implode ... There are

institutions which would prefer to see us fail, because we

are such a threat.’ That’s more like it, so fingers crossed.

The number of children that go missing every year never to

be seen again is beyond belief. We are talking many millions

worldwide. In the 1990s I rang the US federal government to

ask how many children went missing in America each year. I

was told they didn’t keep the figures. They could tell me

how many cars went missing, but not children. I was advised

to contact each individual state and when I began doing so I

was shocked at how fast the number was into the hundreds

of thousands. It was certainly heading towards a figure I

have seen quoted of 800,000. People relate missing children

stories they see occasionally in the news to the number that

go missing, but only a fraction of these cases are ever

publicly reported. While there will be less sinister reasons to

explain most of them, it is clear from my decades of

research that significant numbers end up in paedophile

rings, underground bases for experimentation and other

horrors off-planet involving Reptilians and Greys, or are used

for sacrifice in the satanic network. The mammoth numbers



are not by chance but by design. Trafficking of children is a

global industry and the mass migration into Europe has

been exploited to this end on a gargantuan scale. Europol,

the EU’s police intelligence unit, estimated in 2016 that

some 10,000 unaccompanied migrant children had gone

missing in Europe in the previous two years. This is

happening all over the world orchestrated by the El-ite for

their Archontic Reptilian/Grey masters. To give you an idea

of the scale of paedophilia, two websites on the encryption-

protected ‘dark web’ that were exposed by American and

German police numbered 150,000 and nearly 90,000

members.

F igure 2 9 8 : Paedophile Lord Mountbatten, mentor to Prince

Charles and Prince

Philip, introduced record-breaking paedophile Savile to the royal

inner circle in

the 1960s. I guess they must have liked the music he played.

Savile – the ‘royal’ connection The truth and

scale of what is happening – and who it involves – was there

to be seen with the Jimmy Savile scandal that broke after

this disc jockey and television personality died in 2011.

British media reported the tidal wave of evidence that he

was a paedophile of monumental proportions, who had been

abusing hundreds of children and young people since the

1950s at locations that included BBC studios, hospitals and

care homes. What they did not say was that he was a

procurer of children for the rich and famous El-ite and that

this is why he was never charged or prosecuted for long-

time mass paedophilia which the police and security

agencies well knew about. The media briefly mentioned and

then ignored the fact that Savile was an inner circle bosom

buddy of the royal family and was brought into the fold in

the 1960s by the known paedophile Lord Mountbatten, a

family mentor of Prince Philip and Prince Charles (Fig 298).

Savile became a close friend of Charles during his decades

of paedophilia right up to his death (Fig 299). He was also a

long-time friend of Prime Ministers Edward Heath and

Margaret Thatcher, whose government between 1979 and

1990 has been the focus of allegations about the

Westminster paedophile ring (Fig 300). I expose this at

length in The Perception Deception. Let’s just think about

this for a minute. No one gets close to the Queen and inner

circle of the royal family without British Intelligence in the

form of MI5 and police Special Branch knowing about them

and their background. The same is true of a prime minister.

Yet Jimmy Savile was allowed to be so close to both while

the police knew that he was a child abuser of historic

proportions? How could this happen? The answer is simple –

he was a procurer of children for the rich and famous El-ite

(Fig 301). Upper echelons of British Intelligence play a vital

part in watching the back of participants (including their

own) and they had to be crucial in keeping Savile out of

trouble while knowing what he was doing and how close he

was to the British royals. This is the case with American

Intelligence and their protection of father George Bush and

others when it is an open secret in US political circles that

Bush has been a paedophile and violent abuser of children

on a Savile-type scale for much of his life (see The Biggest

Secret). What did the CIA do about this? They named their

headquarters in Langley, Virginia, after him – the George

Bush Center for Intelligence! Allegations of a paedophile

ring based in Washington DC emerged during the Trump-

Clinton election campaign in 2016 only to be dismissed by

reflex-action by the media. This was given the title

‘Pizzagate’ after alleged involvement of Washington pizza

restaurants. I can’t confirm the accuracy or not of the

alleged detail and personalities because I have not

investigated the background deeply enough for that. But is

there an El-ite paedophile ring in Washington? Absolutely

there is and I have been exposing this for decades now. Is it

really a coincidence that the plea-bargain convicted

American billionaire paedophile Jeffrey Epstein was (is) close

friends with so many of the political, financial, corporate and

royal El-ite including Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew? Or that

Clinton flew so many times in Epstein’s private jet dubbed

the ‘Lolita Express’? Or that he, Andrew and others of their

ilk visited Epstein’s Caribbean island at the centre of

allegations against him? Put ‘Epstein little black book’ into a

search engine to read about his buddy list (Fig 302). They

include Donald Trump, Tony Blair and Blair’s friend, the

political manipulator Peter Mandelson. Trump is quoted by

The Washington Post as calling Epstein a ‘terrific guy’ in

2002. He said Epstein was ‘a lot of fun to be with’ and ‘he

likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them

are on the younger side’. Alexander Acosta, Trump’s pick for

Labor Secretary, is at the centre of a lawsuit at the time of

writing for the strange plea bargain he agreed with Epstein

in 2008 while a US attorney in Miami. The bargain meant

that Epstein was freed from a potential life sentence and

federal prosecution. Trump was named in the lawsuit as a

witness. Attorneys for some underage Epstein accusers say

the plea bargain agreement was a ‘sweetheart deal’ that

only happened because of his wealth and connections.





F igure 2 9 9 : Monumental paedophile and child-procurer Jimmy

Savile was a

long-time close friend of Prince Charles right up to his death in 2011.

F igure 3 0 0 : Jimmy Savile was a close friend of Margaret Thatcher

whose





government in the 1980s has been at the centre of claims about a

Westminster

paedophile ring.

F igure 3 0 1 : Why he was never caught despite his record-breaking

paedophilia

for decades.

F igure 3 0 2 : He was the guy on the private jet with you, Bill.

Everywhere El-ite Archontic Reptilian bloodlines, Satanists

and Sabbatean Frankists operate you find sacrifice ritual

and paedophilia with Hollywood very much included.

Hollywood is awash with paedophilia, Satanism and mind

control and is a really sick place. Why would that not be

when Hollywood is the global centre of fantasy and magic

through which the El-ite globally program perceptions?

Former child actors have spoken out about paedophile and

satanic rings (same thing) that control Tinsel Town and

involve the very rich and famous, but most stay quiet

fearing the end of their career or worse. I have heard similar

accounts all over the world so many times. Jon Robberson,

who worked behind the scenes in Hollywood for 16 years on

feature films and television projects with major studios, has

since been very vocal about the paedophiles and Satanists

that run the place. He talks about a global satanic ring and

this is the same one that I have been exposing since the

1990s which operates in every country and is central to El-

ite and Sabbatean Frankist operations. Robberson said there

was ‘paedophilia running rampant in Hollywood’ with child

sex rings involving the ‘highest upper echelons of

Hollywood, executive VPs of development, producers, mega-

power agents and the international bankers that fund all this

stuff.’ But of course Sabbatean Frankists and their like are

obsessed with Satanism and abusing children. Robberson

described how children are drugged and filmed at

paedophile parties involving ‘multi-partner homosexual

[orgies], bloodletting, and animal dismemberment.’ He also

confirmed another common theme of how politicians and

those of use to the El-ite are compromised while being

secretly filmed. ‘Once they’ve got the goods on you on

video, they own you’, he said. Actress Angelina Jolie can be

seen in a leaked video on YouTube describing her gruesome

initiation ritual in which she says, ‘you’ll be able to heal

once you’re beaten’. She talks about having to kill a snake,

creating a real bond with Satan and how she has

encouraged other celebrities to take part:

... I would’ve filmed it [the ritual] in order to encourage

like everybody, all different types of celebrities but there

is that thing where it is like a lot of people misunderstand

it [the ritual], maybe with S& M and they think ... its

superficial and I have to like explain to people how like it’s

... more like you are tied down because you need to like

be able to, like, have something hold you down to keep

you still or like you’ll fight or go absolutely mad.

These are the sort of rituals that are often filmed to

compromise those taking part for the rest of their lives and

that especially applies to politicians. Former child actor

Elijah Wood told the UK Sunday Times how child actors were

‘preyed upon’ in Hollywood: ‘There is a darkness in the

underbelly – if you can imagine it, it’s probably happened.’

Wood talked about ‘a lot of vipers in this industry’. Literally,

as it turns out. He said the entire Hollywood industry is run

by a powerful paedophile ring protected by the politically

powerful ‘right at the top’ in Washington DC. This precisely

matches my own research and he said that it was on the

scale of the Jimmy Savile scandal. Wood was immediately

attacked by the mainstream media who cover up to order.

Child actor Corey Feldman said that he and his friends were

surrounded by paedophiles who were ‘everywhere, like

vultures’. He blamed the death of his best friend, child actor

Corey Haim, through drink and drugs, on his abuse as a

child. Corey Feldman talked of a ‘Hollywood mogul’ who was

head of a ‘circle of older men’ who surround themselves

with young children. ‘I can tell you that the number one

problem in Hollywood was, is, and always will be

paedophilia.’ The Roman Catholic Church is one of the

biggest paedophile rings on Earth and cross-connects with

the others. A Netflix series, The Keepers, exposed a catholic

paedophile and murder ring in Baltimore involving the

police, businessmen and politicians and I have found the

same theme and networks wherever I have researched. I

expose El-ite paedophiles and their rings at length and in

detail in The Biggest Secret and The Perception Deception.

Software Satanism Paedophilia and Satanism are

intrinsically linked through the Archontic Reptilian

connection to secret societies like the Lucifer-worshipping

Sabbatean Frankists. Witnesses have said that Jimmy Savile

was a Satanist and it so often goes with the territory. I have

rarely come across an El-ite paedophile that was not

connected at least in some way to Satanism. Edward Heath

is but one example and I have been told many times by

insiders that satanic ritual is weaved into the very fabric of

life for Jimmy Savile’s mates among British royalty. Satanism

is compartmentalised like the entire Web of human control,

and those in the lower levels will not be aware of what is

happening at the peak of the pyramid. There are also

different expressions of what is called the ‘occult’. The word

simply means hidden and relates to hidden knowledge

about the nature and workings of reality. Knowledge is not

good or bad – it just is. Judgements about good and bad

come with how the knowledge is used. There is therefore

what some call the ‘Light Occult’ in which they seek to use

the knowledge positively for the benefit of humanity and the

‘Dark Occult’ in which the very extreme opposite is the

case. I have heard Christians constantly condemning ‘the

occult’ as evil when if that knowledge about reality were

used in the right way it would set us free. Satanists and

Dark Occultists have enslaved humanity by using hidden

knowledge for their own ends and ensuring that while they

have the knowledge the population does not. They have

done this by demonising that which they use against us.

They want people to either laugh and dismiss the

knowledge or be in fear of it. What I have laid out in this

book is occult information because it has been hidden.

Satanic groups that have come to public attention, such as

Anton LaVey’s Church of Satan and the Temple of Set in the

United States, are lower down the pyramid. They operate as

interface groups recruiting people psychopathic enough and

with the desired skills to serve higher up in the hierarchy.

The Temple of Set was established by Lieutenant Colonel

Michael Aquino, another Satanic paedophile, from within the

US military’s psychological warfare department. When the

military were questioned about this they said that a man’s

religion is his own business. A 1987 article in the San

Francisco Examiner quoted a source accusing Aquino and

his wife of involvement in child rape. The source described

their house, the headquarters of the Temple of Set, in such

detail that police were able to justify a search warrant. They

confiscated 38 videotapes, photo negatives, and evidence

that the house was the centre of a paedophile ring

connected with US military bases. Despite all of this Aquino

and his wife were never indicted. The upper-levels of the

military is a nest of paedophiles and Satanists who see war

as a satanic ritual blood fest to serve and feed their

demonic masters. Secret societies much higher in the

satanic hierarchy include the inner circles of the Sabbatean

Frankist Jesuit Order, Knights Templar, Knights of Malta,

Opus Dei and the Skull and Bones Society, or Order of

Death, located next to Yale University in Connecticut (Fig

303). Skull and Bones recruits students chosen by the El-ite

from bloodline families who go on to be installed in positions

of power to serve the satanic Archontic Reptilian agenda.

Father George and Boy George Bush were both Skull and

Bones initiates who went on be US presidents. Bizarre

initiation rites include lying naked in a coffin and pledging to

serve the interests of the Order above all else and that

includes the American public when in political office.

American voters in 2004 were given the choice for president

between Boy George Bush (Skull and Bones) and John Kerry



(Skull and Bones) who went on to become Obama’s

Secretary of State. I have exposed Skull and Bones and

other significant secret societies in detail in other books

including The Perception Deception. All these satanic secret

societies are expressions of the same stream of the

Archontic Dark Occult that was practiced in Babylon, Sumer,

Egypt, Rome and by Celtic Druids, as I have spent decades

researching and exposing. Hollywood insider Jon Robberson

tells the same story in relation to Tinsel Town:

F igure 3 0 3 : Windowless headquarters of the Skull and Bones

Society alongside

Yale University.

Much of what is used in Hollywood today that would be

considered Luciferian in nature really comes from a lot of

the Druidic incantations, the Druidic witchcraft, the

worship of Gaia, of earth, in ninth and tenth century

England. And prior to that, you can trace that through

Kabbalistic witchcraft and Jewish mysticism all the way

back, really, to what was going on in Babylon.

He is describing the expansion of the bloodlines and new

psyche out of the Middle East and wherever the bloodlines

go Satanism, human and animal sacrifice and paedophilia

go, too. Major rituals are still performed on the same days

and during the same astrological sequences as the ancients.

Halloween or Samhain (pronounced Sowin) is a prime one

and so is the period between March 19th/22nd and May 1st

or May Day. March 19th/22nd is when the Sun is said to be

‘resurrected’ out of the Southern Hemisphere at the start of

the northern spring (symbolism connected to the

‘resurrection’ story of ‘Jesus’). The May 1st period is Beltane

(Bel-tane – Bel/Baal/Bill/BL). Communism celebrates May

Day because that is a satanic system of control as is

fascism. This March-Beltane period is known in Satanism as

the Season of Sacrifice and some sacrifices are performed in

the open while being disguised as wars and disasters. The

Waco massacre, Oklahoma City bombing, Columbine High

School shooting, Virginia Tech Massacre and Boston

Marathon bombing are only a few of many examples. They

all happened in the period April 16th to 20th and even a

2011 article published by CNN asked the question: ‘What is

it about mid-April and violence in America?’ Society-

changing events are orchestrated in sync with particular

astrological and numerological sequences which represent

particular energetic (information) states which make their

impact more powerful, not least on the human psyche. Is it

really a coincidence that terrorist attacks in London (Lee

Rigby murder), Brussels, Munich, London (Westminster

Parliament) and Manchester all happened on the 22nd of

the month?

Satanic El-ite Satanists seek to impose their desires

and lack of values onto humans and make the whole world

satanic. Their plans are well advanced with, for example,

satanic rituals presented under the disguise (to the



unknowing masses) of stage performances, videos, music

and movies. All are projecting visual and audio frequencies

and symbols to seize the minds and perceptions of the

audience. Michael Jackson’s Thriller which explored the

satanic realms is an obvious case and culminated with his

eyes changing to reptilian (Fig 304). Stage shows and videos

by world famous artists such as Katy Perry, Lady Gaga,

Miley Cyrus, Madonna and Beyonce also feature blatant

satanic and secret society themes and ritualism. I am not

accusing any of these people personally of anything, but

pointing out the symbolism in their performances which is

undeniable. Royalty and politics are incredibly ritualistic with

their satanic foundations hidden behind the cover of ‘pomp

and ceremony’. Life for the British royals is one continuous

ritual. Wars and covertly-orchestrated terrorist attacks like

9/11 are really satanic rituals and blood fests. You see

satanic codes everywhere, with some satanic groups

referring to their ‘coven’ as a grotto as in ‘Santa’s grotto’ –

Santa being an anagram of Satan who fronts up the modern

version of the Roman Saturnalia. I have heard the claim that

twelve percent of the population are Satanists and a former

head of the FBI station in Los Angeles who I met a few times

reckoned that if you have a reasonably wide circle of friends

and acquaintances you will know a practicing Satanist.

David Berkowitz, the Son of Sam serial killer in New York in

the 1970s, admitted to the murders but later said they were

orchestrated by a satanic cult. He said in a letter to a church

minister:

F igure 3 0 4 : Reptilian eyes in Thriller.

Satanists (genuine ones) are peculiar people. They aren’t

ignorant peasants or semiliterate natives. Rather, their

ranks are filled with doctors, lawyers, businessmen, and

basically highly responsible citizens ... They are not a

careless group who are apt to make mistakes. But they

are secretive and bonded together by a common need

and desire to mete out havoc on society. It was Aleister

Crowley who said: I want blasphemy, murder, rape,

revolution, anything bad.

At all levels of Satanism you have the pillars of society,

politicians galore from all political ‘sides’, judges, lawyers,

bankers, military personnel, police, media owners,

journalists, radio and television hosts, actors, actresses and

entertainers, doctors, teachers, college academics and

social workers. They have infiltrated all the institutions of

perceptual influence and ‘physical’ control, and work

together in common cause for the total enslavement of

humanity while their non-Satanist colleagues have no idea

what is really going on and why. Governments and their

agencies serve the interests of the corporate and banking

world because key players are members of the same

Archontic Reptilian global death cult. Italian fascist Benito

Mussolini defined fascism as the fusion of government and

corporate power and on that basis alone Satanism is

fascism. But, in truth, it’s even worse. I saw an interview

with one dark occultist who said they want to make ‘Nazism

and fascism look like kindergarten’. Nice people. They are

united by their desire for control and their obsession with

materialistic me, me, me, while themselves under the

control of their unseen Archontic Reptilian masters. Their

unity and focus is their power while they seek in every way

to divide and divert the target population. They promote a

belief that there is no ultimate truth, only what you choose

it to be, and they were the force behind Darwinism which

deleted Spirit and eternity from the perception of life leaving

only survival of the fittest in a dead and mechanistic

Universe. I am sure that the sudden support for the fact that

we live in a simulation comes in many cases from a desire

to delete any perception of a greater self. ‘You are just a

computer program so Do What Thou Wilt.’ What they leave

out is that we are Infinite Awareness caught in a simulation

and we are not the simulation. Anything that can divert

humanity from self-identifying with Infinite Awareness is to

be desired and promoted by these people. This is almost the

entire basis of mainstream science for the same reason. The

point is that there is an ultimate truth – we are all

expressions of Infinite Awareness manifesting our reality

through perception. For centuries human sacrifice was done

openly and when that became unacceptable to the masses

it continued, to this day, in secret. We have all heard the

ancient global theme of human sacrifice in which ‘young

virgins’ were sacrificed to the gods. These ‘gods’ are

Archons, Reptilians, Greys and demonic entities in their

many forms. ‘Young virgins’ is simply code for children.

Rituals allow the energetic terror emitted from the sacrifice

to be absorbed by Archontic manifestations in their band of

frequency. This is what the term ‘sacrifice to the gods’ really

means. The Old Testament ‘god’ demanded sacrifice and

Zulu historian and shaman Credo Mutwa told me that

legends describe how human sacrifice and cannibalism – a

canni-baal-lism – only began with the reptilian Chitauri who

demanded that this be done. Bloodline and Archon-

possessed Satanists drink the blood of the sacrifice which

gives them energetic sustenance and also a chemical high

from adrenalin that enters the bloodstream in perfuse

quantities during the sacrifice. Rituals are performed in the

seen and unseen that energetically synchronise and I have

been told many times by those who have taken part how in

the most powerful ones an energetic vortex or ‘gateway’

can be created that allows entities in the unseen to slip

through into our reality albeit it briefly (Fig 305). Satanists

are mostly terrified of them. Blood lust and its energetic

effect can also trigger the reptilian-human hybrid ‘software’

to shapeshift between holographic forms and this has been

described to me by participants many times.



F igure 3 0 5 : A Neil Hague image of the interdimensional sacrificial

rituals

performed by inner-circle Satanists.

© www.neilhague.com



F igure 3 0 6 : All roads lead to ...

You can see why the El-ite and their hidden controllers

have worked so hard to suppress the true nature of reality.

Without that knowledge the target population has had no

chance of understanding what is happening all around them

and why things are as they are. The major point to

remember from this chapter is that despite all the different





names, labels and aspects of human society all pyramid

hierarchies lead to one uniting and controlling force (Fig

306). With that realisation the illusion of separateness and

randomness can be unravelled.

‘You are one of the rare people who can separate your

observation from your preconception. You see what is,

where most people see what they expect’ – J ohn

Steinbeck

Another vitally important field of suppressed knowledge is

that of mind control and its potential to turn a human being

into little more than a computer program following the

encoded instructions of the programmer. This is another

form of possession. El-ite networks are mind control

networks both in terms of their individual assets and the

population in general.

I met a woman in the United States in the 1990s whose

information about El-ite Satanism and the Reptilian

connection has stood the test of the years, and there has

been so much confirmation from other sources. Her real

name was Jennifer Greene, but by then she chose to be

called Arizona Wilder and dye her blonde hair in an effort to

resist the mind-programming she endured as blonde-haired,

blue-eyed Jennifer. Blonde-haired, blue-eyed people are the

Hidden Hand’s preferred genetic type in some mind control

programs. This relates again to their particular energetic

information fields and at least in part to the Nordic ET race

which opposes Reptilian control and is genetically connected

to blond-haired, blue-eyed and other white races. What

Arizona told me about her gut-wrenching mind control

experience mirrored the accounts I heard about so many

others around the world during my years of intensive

research into the subject on both sides of the Atlantic. A

glimpse (and only a glimpse) into the background to

government-funded mind control networks came in the

1970s with the revelations about the CIA mind control

programme known as MKUltra. President Gerald Ford – who

worked with MKUltra – appointed Vice-President Nelson

Rockefeller to head an ‘inquiry’ to ensure that the real truth

was kept under wraps (see paedophile ‘inquiries’). MKUltra’s

cover-story when they could no longer deny the evidence

was that mind control experiments were aimed at

developing drugs and ways to secure confessions during

interrogation and torture. The real motivation was to

advance the potential of creating undetectable mind-

controlled slaves for the following reasons: To produce mind

control assets, including children, who would not remember

their abuse or famous abusers; to create assassins that

could be explained away as ‘lone nuts’; and to program

targets to carry out terrorist attacks that could be blamed

on a target group or country. There were many other

reasons, too. I say ‘were’ – but all this continues today under

other names. Movies featuring mind-controlled assassins



and government assets like The Mandurian Candidate are

based on fact. An offshoot of MKUltra was called Project

Monarch and named after the monarch butterfly. Monarch

involves the creation of mind-controlled sex slaves for the

rich and famous, including American presidents, and these

slaves include some of the biggest names in music and

entertainment. See The Biggest Secret for the background

to Monarch. Mind-controlled artists in Hollywood and the

entertainment industry are often pictured with a butterfly.

You also see endless images of artists either covering or

emphasizing one eye and this is often to indicate control by

Project Monarch and/or the El-lite cult of the all-seeing eye

(Fig 307). For more on this put ‘celebrity illuminati signs’

into text and image search engines. These are artists most

promoted by El-ite-controlled Hollywood and the music

industry and given most promotion by the media. Their

songs and occult-inspired stage shows are often designed to

target and sexualize young girls. I don’t condemn them

personally because they are under mind control

programming and will have suffered abuse themselves as

part of that. They know not what they do – well, most of

them anyway.

F igure 3 0 7 : The number of times you see celebrities covering one

eye in

publicity shots is ridiculously high ... unless.

MKUltra was run by the CIA’s Scientific Intelligence

Division and the US Army Chemical Corps Special

Operations Division. Even from what was allowed to come

out the scale was massive. The programme involved at least

80 institutions in the United States and Canada with

colleges,

universities,

hospitals,

prisons

and

the

pharmaceutical cabal all making their contribution to a

secret mind control programme that wiped or manipulated

the minds of its targets and destroyed their lives. This is the

Web in action again. One adult ‘subject’ had her memories

so deleted that she had to be taught again how to go to the

toilet. CIA Director Stansfield Turner testified in 1977 that

MKUltra was created to explore ‘the use of biological and

chemical materials in altering human behaviour’. But that

was only part of what happened. ‘MK’ stands for mind

control, but they used the German spelling in deference to

the Nazis who ran the operation and they included Josef

Mengele, the ‘Angel of Death’ in the concentration camps

who performed mind control and genetic experiments on

children in Nazi Germany using twins as a ‘control group’ to

monitor the effect his ‘work’ was having (Fig 308). Arizona

Wilder said that Mengele was one of her mind controllers as

a child in the United States. He was among 1,600 German

mind controllers, geneticists, scientists, engineers and

technicians taken secretly to the United States after the war

under a US Intelligence/Vatican network operation called

Project Paperclip to continue their crimes against humanity

and develop advanced technology. Many of these people

were members of the Nazi Party. Mengele and Adolf Hitler

(who didn’t die at the end of the war) were also relocated to

Argentina in South America. There are no borders with the

Hidden Hand which is why the Rockefeller family funded a

whole floor of a German university for Hitler’s race purity

‘expert’ Ernst Rudin to pursue his eugenics programmes.

The Rockefeller family were and are a major force behind

the eugenics movement (see ... And The Truth Shall Set You

Free). Project Paperclip personnel who were helped to

escape from Germany created NASA (NAZI). Rocket scientist

Werner von Braun, a member of the Nazi Party, was among

them. During the war he was the brains behind the deadly

V-2 rockets that targeted Britain, and when Project Paperclip

whisked him away to America he went on to design the

Saturn V booster rockets for the Apollo Moon programme.

The Hidden Hand via the Web covertly created both world

wars by controlling all sides (see again ... And The Truth

Shall Set You Free) and transformed global society in the

process. Arizona Wilder told me about her experiences with

Mengele who operated under the name Dr Green in the

United States during MKUltra when he wasn’t down in South

America with Hitler (see Children of the Matrix). One of

Mengele’s MKUltra locations was the China Lake Naval

Weapons Station in California which I described earlier.

Naval Intelligence whistleblower William Tompkins said in

2015 that Reptilians worked with the Nazis in Germany and

that makes even more sense of what insiders told me in the

1990s about seeing leading Nazis including Adolf Hitler and

Josef Mengele at China Lake, while others described their

experiences with Reptilians in that same underground

facility. There have long been claims of a Reptilian base

under Antarctica where many Nazis headed in the last

months of the war.



F igure 3 0 8 : Angel of Death Josef Mengele.

MKUltra was founded on what is called trauma-based mind

control and ideally they want to start with children before

the age of around six, while brain pathways are still forming,

although it can still be started later. They inflict unspeakable

horrors on these children – truly unspeakable – and this

causes them to ‘dissociate’ or block out memories of what

they experienced. Imagine little children being forced to

watch other children and animals they have grown to love

sacrificed with a knife across the throat while knowing they

could be next. Imagine being made to eat the sacrifice or a

foetus, and being terrified of spiders or snakes while left in a

dark pit with them for hours on end. I have been told all

these stories and worse many times around the world.

Beheadings that children have been forced to witness and

perform by Western-funded ISIS terror groups are all part of

this same process of desensitising children and

manipulating their sense of reality. ISIS or Islamic State is a

branch of militarised Satanism and the military itself

worldwide is the same. Wars are mass satanic rituals to

these sick people. Self-contained compartments are created

by the traumatised mind behind which horrendous

memories are hidden and these are known in the mind

control industry as ‘alters’ as in altered states. The effect is

called dissociative identity disorder or formerly multiple

personality disorder and this is the same mental process

that causes people to have no memory of the impact in a

serious road accident. Each self-contained compartment is

then hijacked by the mind manipulators to be programmed

for different tasks – sex slaves, assassins, terrorists, even

computer-like couriers of information between agents of the

Web in a process they call ‘mind files’. They are given what

is termed a ‘front alter’ which is the personality that

normally interacts with the world and people think is ‘them’

(and they themselves think is ‘them’). But so-called ‘back

alters’ in the subconscious are primed to open with

particular codes to instantly replace the front alter. These

codes are called in mind control parlance ‘triggers’. They

might be a word, phrase, sound, anything they choose to

encode and when the trigger is delivered the programmed

back alter becomes the front alter and carries out its

programmed behaviour (Fig 309). Children and young

women are sexually and violently abused in back alter

awareness by some of the most famous people on Earth and

then the front alter is returned which knows nothing of what

has happened. I sat with a therapist in London one day as

she opened and closed alters of a client using codes she

had taken many months to elicit using various psychological

techniques. I was amazed to see different personalities

instantly appear with each code. They were different ages,

voices, even (shapeshifted) faces, and included one alter

that was truly evil although the person’s front alter was kind

and gentle. These evil alters are programmed and triggered

in people like Arizona Wilder to conduct satanic rituals for

them, but then not remember, unless the compartments

break down later as they did with her. The problem the

manipulators have is that by the age of 30 to 40 the mind

can become strong enough to start dismantling the

‘firewalls’ and when that happens photographic memories

are released into conscious awareness. They are

photographic because of the effect that severe trauma has

in focusing the mind. Most high-level mind-controlled assets

who potentially know far too much are killed after 30 to

avoid such exposure while others who survive tell of

experiences so extraordinary that few will believe them. I

spent years studying this and talking to survivors in North

America, Europe, Australia and elsewhere who had

recovered memories. It is heartbreaking to hear their stories

of what happened to them even as young children and to

know that this is globally widespread to this day. Their

common themes and experiences and the rich and famous

people they name are absolutely compelling and consistent.

Many actors and actresses in Hollywood, singers and other

entertainers are under trauma-based mind control to serve

the mass perception-programming agenda that I will

describe, and you see the programming break down

sometimes when they go out of control and do crazy things.

One reaction can be a desperation to change the way they

look – to change the way they are – and this is what

happened with Arizona Wilder. Dyeing or cutting off their

hair is one method that they use. Technology is taking over

mind control programmes today, which allows them to go

direct to the brain’s information processing systems through

the medium of electricity, electromagnetism, frequency and

microchips.





F igure 3 0 9 : Compartmentalised ‘alters’ in mind control

programming with the

butterfly symbolism of Project Monarch.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 3 1 0 : Cathy O’Brien tells of her extraordinary experiences in

Trance-Formation of America.

Servants of Satan Mind control of individuals, the

general population and even assets of the Web is aimed at

ensuring there are no surprises, maverick behaviour or

situations and responses the El-lite can’t predict. They are

not interested in controlling one side in the symbolic soccer

game. They want to control both sides and the referee so

they know the outcome before the game has even started.

Presidents and many leading politicians are subjected to

mind control for this reason. Mind control is the El-ite’s

insurance. Put the words ‘Bill Clinton, mind control and

treason’ into YouTube and you will clearly see his

programming. I strongly recommend the book Trance-

Formation of America which details the shocking and

appalling experiences of blonde-haired, blue-eyed American

Cathy O’Brien in Project Monarch (Fig 310). Cathy, who I

have met many times and still keep in touch with, was

subjected to mind control almost from birth by her satanic

family overseen by then Michigan Congressman Gerald Ford

who would instigate an ‘inquiry’ (cover-up) when he became

US President into the very mind control programmes of

which he was a part. The Jesuit Order was also heavily

involved in Cathy’s programming because at its inner core

this is a satanic operation working for the Web through the

Roman Catholic Church. Her abusers included father George

Bush, Dick Cheney, Ronald Reagan and Bill and Hillary

Clinton. Arizona Wilder who I met separately and years after

Cathy was also attached to Project Monarch. They both

describe Reptilian alien experiences during their mind

control captivity. Cathy explains hers in terms of an illusion

that was part of her programming, but Arizona describes

reptilian shapeshifters in very literal terms. Cathy writes in

Trance-Formation of America about an experience with

father George Bush in an office in Washington DC during the

Reagan-Bush administration when he opened a book

depicting what he called ‘lizard-like aliens from a far-off

deep space place’. She said that Bush claimed to be one of

them and then appeared to transform ‘like a chameleon’

into a reptile. Cathy describes how Bill and Bob Bennett, two

well-known political figures in the same period, gave her

mind-altering drugs at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center

mind control laboratory. She said they told her they were

‘alien to this dimension – two beings from another plane’.

Cathy recalled what happened next:

The high-tech light display around me convinced me I was

transforming dimensions with them. A laser of light hit the

black wall in front of me, which seemed to explode into a

panoramic view of a White House cocktail party – as

though I had transformed dimensions and stood amongst

them. Not recognising anyone, I frantically asked: ‘Who

are these people?’

‘They’re not people and this isn’t a spaceship’, [Bill]

Bennett said. As he spoke, the holographic scene changed

ever so slightly until the people appeared to be lizard-like

aliens. ‘Welcome to the second level of the underground.

This is a mere mirror reflection of the first, an alien

dimension. We are from a trans-dimensional plane that

spans and encompasses all dimensions ... I have taken

you through my dimension as a means of establishing

stronger holds on your mind than the Earth plane

permits’, Bill Bennett was saying. ‘Being alien, I simply

make my thoughts your thoughts by projecting them into

your mind. My thoughts are your thoughts ...’

Cathy O’Brien believes this experience to be mind control

manipulation, but Arizona Wilder does not. Type the words

‘Confessions of a Mother Goddess’ into the search facility at

Davidicke.com and you can see an interview that I did with Arizona in 1999. ‘Mother Goddess’ refers to the title she had

in the satanic ritual hierarchy when her satanic alter was

triggered. She told me about conducting rituals for the

American El-ite and the British royal family at places like

Balmoral Castle in Scotland with its Sigil of Saturn logo and

she described the true nature of the royals away from the

public eye. The Queen Mother, who died in 2002 aged

nearly 102, was still alive when I spoke with Arizona. She

told me:

The Queen Mother was cold, cold, cold, a nasty person.

None of her cohorts even trusted her. They have named

an alter after her. They call it the Black Queen. I have

seen her sacrifice people. I remember her pushing a knife

into someone’s rectum the night that two boys were

sacrificed. One was 13 and the other 18. You need to

forget that the Queen Mother appears to be a frail old

woman. When she shapeshifts into a reptilian, she

becomes very tall and strong. Some of them are so strong

they can rip out a heart and they all grow by several feet

when they shapeshift [this is a common theme when

shapeshifting is described].

Arizona said of the Queen:

I have seen her sacrifice people and eat their flesh and

drink their blood. One time she got so excited with blood-

lust that she didn’t cut the victim’s throat from left to right

in the normal ritual, she just went crazy, stabbing and

ripping at the flesh after she had shapeshifted into a

reptilian. When she shapeshifts, she has a long reptile

face, almost like a beak and she’s an off-white colour. The

Queen Mother looks basically the same, but there are



differences. She [the Queen] also has like bumps on her

head and her eyes are very frightening. She’s very

aggressive ...

... I have seen [Prince Charles] shapeshift into a reptilian

and do all the things the Queen does. I have seen him

sacrifice children. There is a lot of rivalry between them

for who gets to eat what part of the body and who gets to

absorb the victim’s last breath and steal their soul. I have

also seen Andrew participate and I have seen Prince Philip

and Charles’ sister [Anne] at the rituals, but they didn’t

participate when I was there.

When Andrew shapeshifts, he looks more like one of the

lizards. The royals are some of the worst, okay, as far as

enjoying the killing, enjoying the sacrifice, and eating the

flesh, they’re some of the worst of all of them. They don’t

care if you see it. Who are you going to tell? Who is going

to believe you? They feel that is their birthright and they

love it. They love it.

F igure 3 1 1 : Prince Charles and his British royal family ancestor, the

mass

human-sacrificing Vlad the Impaler.

One of the most notorious Satanists and mass human

sacrificers was Vlad the Impaler, who was the character on

which Bram Stoker based his stories of Dracula. He was the

15th century aristocratic ruler of Wallachia. This is now part

of Romania which is the global centre for vampire legends,

especially the region of Transylvania. I have said that

satanic software bloodlines interbreed to maintain their

information and personality programs and these pass

through ‘history’ as undiluted as possible by other genetics.

This allows them to be tracked through the generations. I

was therefore not in the least surprised to find that Vlad the

Impaler is an ancestor of both the British royals and the

Bush family. Prince Charles has publicly acknowledged this

connection and often visits Transylvania where he has

property and business interests (Fig 311). Vlad’s father, Vlad Dracul, was an initiate of the ancient Order of the Dragon

which is one of the close-to-the-Spider secret societies that

can be traced back to Egypt at the time of the Pharaohs. Its

emblem is a winged dragon hanging on a cross. Remember

the ‘royal’ winged ‘Draco’ who created the hybrid ‘royal’

bloodlines through which they can directly manipulate our

reality. The most powerful royals, aristocrats and bloodline

dark suits are Draconians incarnate. Vlad the Impaler’s logo

was a snake swallowing its own tail – the Ouroboros or

Leviathan highlighted by Gnostic manuscripts and the

Jewish religion (Fig 312). The title ‘Impaler’ comes from his

love of impaling thousands of people on spears and stakes

and watching them slowly die while drinking their blood,

which takes psychopathy to a whole new level (Fig 313).

Vlad would sign his name Draculea or Draculya which

means the ‘Devil’s Son’ or ‘Son of He who had the Order of

the Dragon’. The Vlad family connection to the British royals

comes through the Queen’s grandmother, Mary of Teck (Fig

314). From 1996 to about 2002 the synchronicity of my life



led me to a stream of people who told me of their

experiences with Reptilians and/or reptilian hybrid bloodline

shapeshifters – ‘No need for arduous seeking, you just have

to follow the clues’. The royal family was mentioned often

during my research into Satanism and paedophilia in Britain,

the United States and Canada. A year before I met Arizona

Wilder in California I was introduced to Christine Fitzgerald,

a close friend and confidant of Princess Diana for nine years.

They had ceased contact before Diana was murdered by the

British Establishment in 1997 (see The Biggest Secret).

Christine was an alternative healer who understood the

energetic background to illusory reality. She told me how

‘friendly people’ from MI5 would leave messages for Diana

at her healing centre near Regent’s Park in London warning

that her life was in danger. Christine knew nothing of the

people telling me of their reptilian experiences because I

had not yet made that public. I met her only to hear about

the relationship between Diana and the royals with nothing

reptilian ever mentioned. But she told me without any

prompting that Diana called the Windsors ‘the reptiles’ and

‘the lizards’ and said: ‘They’re not human.’ Diana had also

said that the Queen Mother was evil. I played dumb and

asked what she meant by reptiles and lizards and she said

that the royal family were a reptilian bloodline and not a

human one. This is what Arizona Wilder would later say

thousands of miles away in the United States along with

many

others.

Christine

Fitzgerald

told

me:

F igure 3 1 2 : Vlad the Impaler’s logo.





F igure 3 1 3 : Vlad the Impaler who was obsessed with suffering,

death and

blood.

F igure 3 1 4 : ‘Royal’ family of Transylvania.

The Queen Mother ... now that’s a serious piece of

wizardry. The Queen Mother is a lot older than people

think. To be honest, the Royal Family hasn’t died for a long

time, they have just metamorphosised. It’s sort of cloning,

but in a different way. They take pieces of flesh and

rebuild the body from one little bit. Because it’s lizard,

because it’s cold-blooded, it’s much easier to do this

Frankenstein shit than it is for us. The different bodies are

just different electrical vibrations and they have got that

secret, they’ve got the secret of the micro-currents, it’s so

micro, so specific, these radio waves that actually create

the bodies. These are the energies I work with when I’m

healing.

She was talking, of course, about the way the body is a

projection of waveform information.

They know the vibration of life and because they’re cold-

blooded, they are reptiles, they have no wish to make the

Earth the perfect harmony it could be, or to heal the Earth

from the damage that’s been done. The Earth’s been

attacked for zeons by different extraterrestrials. It’s been

like a football for so long. This place is a bus stop for many

different aliens. All these aliens, they could cope with

anything, including the noxious gases. They’re landing all

the time and coming up from the bowels of the Earth.

They looked like reptiles originally, but they look like us

when they get out now through the electrical vibration,

that key to life I talked about. They can manifest how they

want to. All the real knowledge has been taken out and

shredded and put back in another way. The Queen Mother

is ‘Chief Toad’ of this part of Europe and they have people

like her in every continent. Most people, the hangers on,

don’t know, you know, about the reptiles. They are just in

awe of these people because they are so powerful.



F igure 3 1 5 : What are Britain, Canada, Australia and the

Commonwealth doing

still having a head of state chosen purely by bloodline while calling

themselves

‘free’ countries?

This is what is really going on and how the world is really

controlled (Fig 315). A great advantage the El-ite have in

hiding the truth is that what is happening and what is

perceived to be happening are so fantastically different.

When people like me expose the truth we get ridiculed and

dismissed by an incredulous media and public but, in terms

of the public, things are changing now. Christine Fitzgerald

also told me in the late 1990s that Jimmy Savile was a

paedophile (how right she turned out to be), that he was

very close to the royal family and that Diana loathed him.

Unfortunately she would not repeat that publicly and it

would have been her word against his anyway and I had to

wait until he died in 2011 before posting this information,

although I told people verbally whenever I could. A year

later the Saville story exploded into public awareness in a

television documentary. Savile was a friend and procurer of

children for former Prime Minister Edward Heath who

sacrificed and murdered untold numbers of kids and was

another Reptilian satanic shapeshifter. Heath was named to

me by another woman I met before I had mentioned my

Reptilian research to anyone publicly. I saw her to discuss

her experience with her former husband who she said was a

Satanist and one-time warden at Burnham Beeches, an area

of woodland and clearings just west of London owned by the

Archontic Reptilian-controlled financial district or ‘Square

Mile’ known as the City of London. This refers to a small

area in what was the original London today called ‘The City’

and not the whole urban sprawl of the UK capital. All over

‘The City’ you see its reptile crest or logo and there is

another flying reptile statue at the point where the City of

London meets the Archontic Reptilian-controlled centre of

the legal profession known as the Temple district (Figs 316

and 317). The name Temple comes from the original Knights

Templar church built in the late 12th century as their London

headquarters, which still stands amidst the legal buildings

and was featured in the 2006 movie The Da Vinci Code. The

Knights Templar secret society once owned this land and

still controls the Temple law networks and the financial

district. The fact that ‘The City’ owns Burnham Beeches will

have nothing to do with its pretty forests and flowers, that’s

for sure. I chatted with the lady about her experiences

there, which included sneaking through the woods one night

to find a ritual going on in a clearing conducted by then

Prime Minister Edward Heath and she said that alongside

him was his Chancellor of the Exchequer Anthony Barber.

They were standing in a circle of other people all were

wearing robes. We completed our conversation and as I

turned to leave I said that I was hearing of strange

experiences, from people on both sides of the Atlantic,



about seeing humans turn into reptiles. I heard her gasp a

breath and I turned to see her clutching her chest. She said

she had not told me about her experience of seeing Heath

shapeshift because she thought that would sound crazy

even to me. The woman said that during the ritual Heath

shifted into a reptilian entity. ‘He eventually became a full-

bodied Reptiloid, growing in size by some two foot’, she

said. This increase in size is a very common feature of

shapeshifting experiences and relates to the switch from

one energetic information source to another which has

different information codes. She said that Heath was

‘slightly scaly’ and ‘spoke fairly naturally, although it



sounded like long distance – if you can imagine the short

time lapses’ (as with the old transatlantic telephone calls). I

have been told such stories so many times while people and

the media think I must just be making it up or something.

No – this shit is real.

F igure 3 1 6 : The flying reptile crest of the City of London financial

district which

is a nest of secret societies and satanic groups.

F igure 3 1 7 : Flying reptile where the City of London meets The

Temple district

named after a nearby Knights Templar church.

Notice how long many of these people live, too, with the

examples of the Queen Mother, the Queen, Prince Philip,

David Rockefeller, Henry Kissinger, Edward Heath and so on.

Ageing is encoded in the waveform/biological program of

the standing wave information field. They have different

genetics (different waveform program) and they don’t get

the same treatment that the general population does. Blood

from young people has been believed since ancient times to

slow the ageing process (it’s a waveform interaction).

Modern studies have supported this including one by a San

Francisco company, Ambrosia, which was the name of the

food and drink of the Greek gods that was believed to confer

immortality. Ambrosia’s research found that transfusions of

blood from young adults reduced the risk of cancer,

dementia and heart disease in older people and the El-ite

consume copious quantities of blood from children. US Naval

intelligence whistleblower William Tompkins and many

insiders and abductees I have met all said that

extraterrestrials can live for thousands of our years. This

makes them the common thread of manipulation while

humans are coming in and out of this reality never

understanding what is really happening because they are

not here long enough. Many will reel back in reflex-dismissal

at the idea that anyone could live for say 3,000 years. But,

hold on. The ‘body’ is a hologram. Why should a hologram

age? Why should the energetic information field from which

it is decoded age? There is no reason whatsoever why it

should go through the cycle of birth-ageing-death as it does.

It is programmed to do so and expanded awareness can

intervene in that program. Major players in the Archontic

Reptilian conspiracy live long lives partly because of their

hybrid genetics and partly because of longevity processes

given to them by their Reptilian masters. As long as the

standing wave oscillation is intact you cannot die. What we

call death is when it stops.

The Rothschild connection I was in a long

correspondence some years ago with an American who said

that he was Phillip Eugene de Rothschild and one of

hundreds of thousands of ‘both legitimate and illegitimate

offspring of this powerful financial and occult family’. No,

this doesn’t mean the Rothschilds have had sex hundreds of

thousands of times. Their offspring are produced through

secret sperm banks and the children are brought up under

different names while all being offshoots of Rothschild

genetics (information software). Other major bloodline

families do the same and their hidden children later become

leading lights in politics, business, banking, media, religion,

science, medicine, academia and so on while having no

apparent connection to the Rothschilds, Rockefellers or

whoever. Often the children don’t even know themselves

who they are and think their rise to the top is by chance,

ability and good luck although the most significant of them

will be told eventually. Hybrid genetics ensures powerful

Archontic Reptilian possession because of their frequency

compatibility with their hidden masters. They are introduced

to secret society and satanic rituals designed to lock them

in to the Reptilian frequency and they are then little more

than biological vehicles for other-reality entities. Phillip

Eugene de Rothschild was living under another name when

we communicated after rejecting his role as a Rothschild

manipulator within the Christian Church. He said that his

father was Baron Philippe de Rothschild of the Mouton-

Rothschild wine producing estates in France and that he had

been conceived through ‘occult incest’. The Baron

(hierarchy-obsessed Draconians love their titles) died at the

age of 86 in 1988 (Fig 318). ‘My father was a decadent

dilettante as well as a master Satanist and hater of God’,

Phillip Eugene told me, ‘but how he loved the fields and the

wines. He used to say it brought out “the primitive” in him.’

Those wine estates are now owned by Baron Philippe’s

daughter, Baroness Philippine, who has a liking for

Baphomet (Saturn) broaches (Fig 319). Phillip Eugene says

that she is his half-sister and that he lived on the estate for

most of his childhood and adolescence. ‘I was held fast in

the emotional power of incest which ... [in their culture] ...

was normal and to be admired.’ I have heard the same so

many times with regard to El-ite families. Incest is simply

part of life and childhood which imposes potentially life-long

psychological control over the offspring. Phillip Eugene said

the bloodlines are vehicles for demonic entities and that



‘being a Rothschild descendant I was maximally

demonised.’ He told me:

F igure 3 1 8 : Baron Philippe de Rothschild.



F igure 3 1 9 : Baroness Philippine de Rothschild loves her Baphomet

(Saturn)

broaches.

I was present at my father’s death in 1988, receiving his

power and the commission to carry out my destiny in the

grand conspiracy of my family. Like their other children, I

played a key role in my family’s revolt from God. When I

watch CNN, it startles me to see so many familiar faces

now on the world stage in politics, art, finance, fashion,

and business. I grew up with these people meeting them

at ritual worship sites and in the centers of power.

Financiers, artists, royalty, and even Presidents, all these

dissociated people work and conspire today to bring in a

new world order ... These people, like me, are SRA/DID

[satanically ritually abused and dissociative identity

disorder mind control].

The last non-dissociative President of the United States

was Dwight Eisenhower; except for him, every one since

Teddy Roosevelt has had some level of dissociative

disorder and some level of involvement in the occult.

President Clinton has ‘full blown’ multiple personality

disorder [he’s mind controlled] and is an active sorcerer in

the satanic mystery religions. This is true of Al Gore, as

well; I have known Misters Clinton and Gore from our

childhood as active and effective Satanists.

What sense this makes of psychopathic leaders bombing

civilians with no emotional consequence and Gore stepping

forward as the frontman and sales-pitcher for the human-

caused global warming hoax. Phillip Eugene then explained

how the bloodlines are expanded and the role that he was

given in the Rothschild conspiracy in the control of

Christianity:

Like the hundreds of thousands of this [Rothschild] occult

family’s other biological children, I had my place and

function within this clan’s attempt to control the world. My

efforts and my family’s efforts strove to have a member of

the European nobility of the Habsburg family assume the

preeminent position over humanity, a position called the

Antichrist by Christianity. While others were seeded into

government, academia, business, or entertainment, my

place was within the Body of Christ [Christianity]. I was to

be a focus for spiritual power and controller of a cult

within this Church. In this Church have lived people who I

have known all my life to be the controllers and power

centers of both the Rothschild family’s false prophet and

the antichrist.

Many dissociated Christians in the Body of Christ hold

similar corporate spiritual, occult positions as part of the

Satanic New World Order. In my being I embodied the

Luciferian morning star within the Church. I represented

the presence of all the other Satanists who were related to

me in the morning star; their spirits were present in me in

the Church. Constructed through ritual but empowered by

legions of spirits, I was a human and spiritual focus of

corporate satanic energy into the ‘Body of Christ’.

Everything is about energy, frequency and how the world

of the seen is controlled from the unseen. The El-ite that you

see are merely vehicles for the Archontic Reptilian El-ite that

you don’t see and the hierarchy of the unseen becomes the

hierarchy of the seen. Satanic power in the human world is

all about the power of the possessing entities. Rituals are

designed to energetically connect initiates to the satanic

frequency – the Demiurge self-aware distortion and its

expression through Reptilians, Greys and others. This is the

origin of ‘selling your soul to Satan’ or entering what they

call ‘marriage’ with Satan – possession. As one satanically

abused witness said on Australian television: ‘The lower you

become ... the more vile you become ... the more pleased

Satan is with you.’ In other words, you become the

distortion. This is straight from the belief-system of

Sabbatean Frankism in which depravity is a form of worship.

By the way, given the Rothschild control of Christianity what

are the chances of any Pope being independent of them?

The last one who tried to be was Pope John Paul I and he

was murdered in 1978 while attempting to purge the

Vatican of Freemasonic agents. He died after the very

Freemasonically-significant 33 days in office. The El-ite love

their numbers as much as their titles. Phillip Eugene de

Rothschild confirmed that the ruling bloodlines are hybrids

bred ‘with what you call the Reptilians’ and also the

importance of the British Royal family in the satanic

hierarchy. He mentioned Prince Philip in particular. Phillip

Eugene attended many satanic rituals where the rich and



famous would assemble to worship their unseen masters

and possessors. He told me:

I can recall the Rockefellers and the Bushes attending

rituals, but never having the supremacy to lead them. I

still regard them as lackeys and not real brokers of occult

power. Except for Alan Greenspan [long-time head of the

US Federal Reserve Bank], most of these fellows were

camp followers in the occult, primarily for the economic

power and prestige.

Greenspan, I recall, was a person of tremendous spiritual,

occult power and could make the Bushes and the younger

Rockefellers cower with just a glance. Ex-CIA Director

Casey (as were most of the CIA leadership for the past

forty years), [Henry] Kissinger, and Warren Christopher

[former US Secretary of State] were in attendance at non-

ritual gatherings and some occult rituals as well, but well

back in the gallery.

F igure 3 2 0 : Alan Greenspan.

Zionist Alan Greenspan was head of the Federal Reserve

from 1987 to 2006 under presidents Ronald Reagan, Father

Bush, Bill Clinton and Boy George Bush (Fig 320). They

didn’t choose him – they were told by their masters to

appoint him. Satanic hierarchy trumps political hierarchy

every time. When Greenspan retired from the Fed he was

given an honorary position at the British Treasury or Her

Majesty’s Treasury to be more accurate. I publish a

document in full in Human Race Get off Your Knees that is

claimed to have been written by an Australian Satanist in

his dying days and I expose Satanism at length in that book.

I can’t say for certain that the document is genuine, but I

can confirm without question that whoever was responsible

had a deep knowledge of Satanism and how it infests the

ruling royal, financial and political classes. This was not so

much a deathbed confession as an arrogant description of

how Satanists run the world. The writer said he was from

the ‘Alpha Lodge’ of Satanism in Sydney and claims that the

influence of Satanism is ‘now so pervasive as not to be

readily noticed’:

Amongst the highest echelons, some are politicians,

medical doctors, high ranking police officers, lawyers,

advertising gurus, decorated military men, media

personalities, fashion models and social workers. Amongst

the lowest (usually temporary) ranks are prostitutes,

minor drug dealers and a number of High School students.

Some operate from the mists.

Their victims are drip-fed straight amnesia by an

assortment of mind control measures and psychological

torture tactics that would leave any normal person numb

with the dawning apprehension that things are not as they

seem – and they have not been for a long, long time. The

most talented amongst them have lifestyles maintained

on crime, but lacquered with a thin veneer of respectable

professionalism and knowledge.

Mention of social workers may surprise people, but they

are the means through which children – often stolen to order

– are taken by Cult-connected social workers from children’s

homes and loving parents in secret ‘family’ courts using

made-up evidence. This is now done on an industrial scale

in Britain, the United States and worldwide. I mentioned

with regard to the ‘Island Mafia’ on the Isle of Wight where I

live that they control social services and this happens

almost everywhere with non-satanic social workers mostly

kept in the dark about what is happening around them.

Secret family courts which can’t be reported allow children

to be stolen by the Cult to order and then a spurious excuse

is made up to take them from their parents. Changes

introduced by Tony Blair (of course) massively increased the

number of children kidnapped by the state in the UK.

Children stolen in this way by the Cult are then adopted by

Cult-connected ‘foster parents’ and used for Satanism and

paedophilia. A Florida couple who fostered and adopted

children in Alabama were charged with hundreds of counts

of first-degree sexual abuse, child abuse, first-degree rape,

first-degree

sodomy,

sexual

torture,

violence

by

strangulation or suffocation, enticing a child for immoral

purposes, incest, first-degree human trafficking and

endangering welfare of children. I am not saying all children

taken from parents go on to be abused, of course not, but

large numbers are. The ‘Alpha Lodge Satanist’ describes

how politicians are ensnared into Satanism and paedophilia

and then blackmailed to support policies and laws

demanded by the Cult:

Politicians are introduced by a carefully graded set of

criteria and situations that enable them to accept that

their victims will be, ‘Our little secret’. Young children

sexually molested and physically abused by politicians

worldwide are quickly used as sacrifices. In Australia the

bodies are hardly ever discovered, for Australia is still a

wilderness.

Overseas, cremation is the favoured method and although

the Satanic Alpha Lodges of Australia have access to

crematoria when needed, this is surprisingly rare. Believe

it or not many bodies are ‘dumped over the side’ every

week in a number of isolated bush land settings.

Private crematoria are the preferred method of disposing

of sacrifices in more densely populated countries. The

alleged Satanist also makes the point that rituals are

constantly repeated at the same locations on the Earth’s ley

line/vortex energy grid because of the effect in lowering the

frequency of the electromagnetic ‘sea’ or Cosmic Internet

with which we are interacting. This, in turn, lowers the

frequency of the human energy field for those who are not

tapping into awareness beyond the simulation.

Satanic money Cult members who are not bloodline

can still serve the agenda and take the rewards if they fall

to the control of the counterfeit spirit and ‘sell their soul to

the Devil’. A Nag Hammadi Gnostic manuscript, Apocryphon

of John, says: ‘They brought them gold, silver, gifts, and

metals of copper, iron, and every sort ...They beguiled them

into temptation so that they would not remember their

immovable Pronoia [Awareness beyond the illusion].’ After

almost 30 years of research worldwide the way the control

system operates becomes an open book and Satanism and

paedophilia are at the core of it. A Swiss banker told the

Russian magazine, NoviDen, in 2011 about the real

background to those running global banking and finance:

... these people are corrupt, sick in their minds, so sick

they are full of vices and those vices are kept under wraps

on their orders ... many are into Satanism. When you go in

some banks you see these satanistic symbols, like in the

Rothschild Bank in Zurich. These people are controlled by

blackmail because of the weaknesses they have. They

have to follow orders or they will be exposed, they will be

destroyed or even killed.

Such people are going to care about making families

homeless and destroying lives – even ending lives – by their

actions and mass foreclosures? Not a chance. When you

understand the mentality we are dealing with the world

comes into focus. Ronald Bernard, a Dutch ‘entrepreneur

and financial dealer’, went public in 2017 in an interview

with De Vrije Media with what he said were his experiences

of the satanic networks (Fig 321). Put the relevant words

into a search engine and you can see everything that he

said. Basically, he claims he was doing so well as an

entrepreneur that he attracted the attention of the global

financial cabal and was asked to join them. He said he was

told that he must put his conscience ‘in the freezer’ and ‘not

at minus 18 degrees but minus 100’. If he wasn’t prepared

to do that he should not get involved. Bernard said he

agreed while not knowing what this really meant, but he

was to find out. He became involved in secret financial

dealings

between

governments,

security

agencies,

corporations and terrorist groups and the general

manipulation of the world financial system. He saw that



government security agencies are really criminal operations

– a point I have been making for decades – and how at the

centre only a very few people control global finance. All was

well until he was told that the head of an Italian company

had committed suicide and left a family behind after a cabal

attack to crash the former Italian currency, the lira.

Bernard’s colleagues mocked and laughed at the man’s fate

and he said this was when his ‘freezer’ began to malfunction

and his consciousness began to return. Breaking point came

when he was asked to sacrifice a child in the satanic

Luciferian rituals that the cabal engaged in. He said he

couldn’t do it and was horrified by what he saw: ‘I was

training to become a psychopath and I failed.’ Bernard

describes how the hidden network worships a force that

‘hates life’ and manipulates from the unseen. ‘There is a

whole invisible world, it is real’, he said. Bernard said that

involvement in child sacrifice is used for blackmailing

financiers and politicians and this is another recurring

theme. He stresses the psychopathic and heartless nature

of these people and how they have a ‘darkness’ inside of

them which is what Gnostics called the ‘counterfeit spirit’.

Bernard

said

of

this

darkness:

F igure 3 2 1 : Ronald Bernard saw the depth of evil behind the

financial system

and world events.

It is a real entity. I have found that what is written in the

Bible, and not only the Bible, you can find it in so many

books, there really has been a moment of separation from

the manifestation of light, in which a group went their own

way and are carrying an intense hatred, anger.

The people who do not underestimate the severity of this

are but few. Because this is an annihilating force that

hates our guts. It hates creation, it hates life. And it will do

anything to destroy us completely. And the way to do that

is to divide humanity. Divide and conquer is their truth.

Humanity is a manifestation of light, that is the true

creation. As long as you divide them on political parties,

skin colour, you name it, then you – from a Luciferian

point of view – suppress the full capacities of your enemy,

their full power. They can’t stand up for themselves

because if they did the Luciferians would lose. This

monster, this greedy monster would disappear.



F igure 3 2 2 : The Archontic Reptilian ‘Spider’ is ultimately behind

Satanism,

secret societies and the institutions of mainstream society including

banking,

politics and media in all its forms.

The entire seen and unseen structure is a colossal

hierarchy of control with the Archontic Reptilians-Greys-

demons serving the ‘Demiurge’ self-aware distortion which

is behind it all (Fig 322). Once you grasp the satanic

foundation of global events you realise that war and

suffering is imposed to generate the energy on which the

whole structure feeds. This is the real reason why humanity

has been so constantly at war since the new psyche kicked

in and why we have such manipulated and systematic

suffering and deprivation worldwide, that doesn’t have to

be. The El-ite may appear to be all-powerful within human

society, but they are really pathetic vehicles and gofers for

Reptilians, Greys and other Archontic manifestations which,

in turn, are pathetic vehicles and gofers for the pathetic

Demiurgic (lack of) awareness. They are all-powerful? Would

you like to be them? Exactly.

Enough. Time to sort this out.





‘If a blind person leads a blind person, both of them will fall

into a hole’ – Gospel of Thomas

There is one target above all others for Hidden Hand

manipulation – perception. Without control of perception

everything else would fall. Perception is everything. Minds

must stay closed to prevent the exposure of the world and

reality as it really is.

Perception and belief dictate behaviour, what we will do

and not do, challenge and not challenge, support and not

support. But it goes much deeper. I highlighted earlier the

relationship between perceptions of reality and experienced

reality through the quantum field of possibility and

probability. Perceptions = frequency = frequencies we

interact with in the quantum field = what we decode and

make holographically manifest as experienced reality:

Accidents happen, that’s what everyone says. But in a

quantum Universe there are no such things as accidents,

only possibilities and probabilities folded into existence by

perception.

Archontic Reptilians and their hybrid bloodline agents

know that by controlling perception they dictate what

humanity will make manifest. The plan is to program

perception in a way that makes people decode their own

holographic (actually waveform) prison individually and

collectively from the Cosmic Internet. What you believe you

perceive, and what you perceive you experience. You don’t

primarily have to control the cosmic information source so

much as program what parts of that source your target

population decodes into perceived and experienced reality.

To achieve this essential control of perception a human ‘life’

is an unceasing perception-program from start to finish for

those who do not breach its perceptual walls and connect

with awareness beyond them. This can’t be true? Oh, but it

is. Archontic Reptilians and their hybrid El-ite have created a

perpetual motion programming system in which the target

population largely programs itself. Each generation is

perceptually programmed by previous generations and by

peer pressure from their own generation. I call this

perceptual motion. Babies in the womb are influenced and

affected by their information environment which is absorbed

in the form of frequency, and when the child is born the real

deal begins. A deluge of perception programming awaits

them no matter what their culture may be and the key is to

hijack attention – energy (information, perception) flows

where attention goes. They want you to focus for your entire

human lifetime on the twigs so you never see the forest

where everything appears in connection and context (Fig

323). Plato’s Allegory of the Cave had the prisoners

believing in an illusory reality because their attention was

focused only on the wall of shadows and they were denied

the information to put the shadows into context. If you can’t

see the forest you can’t see the world as it really is. The

twigs in the case of humans are the five senses which can

only perceive the holographic illusion and not the infinity

and forever that lies outside its frequency firewalls. The

result is a distorted perception of everything that perceives

only pixels and not pictures. I remember as a kid watching

an old black and white television quiz show that involved

showing contestants images of everyday objects that had

been magnified many, many times. You usually couldn’t tell

what they were until the camera gradually pulled out and

you realised it was a cabbage or a scatter cushion (Fig 324).

The manipulation of human reality is like that except that

the camera never pulls out unless you make it so through

expanded awareness. Focus your attention on an object at

really close range and where is the rest of the world now?

Where is peripheral vision where the dots connect? Try

talking to a child, or adult for that matter, absorbed by a

video game or smartphone. They simply don’t hear you.

This is the power of attention. What is a human life when

you break it all down? It is a point of attention. The scale

and breadth of that attention decides how awake or asleep

we are to the greater reality. We don’t live ‘in’ a ‘world’ so



much as decode an interactive information source and what

we fold into existence from that source is decided by

perception (which dictates focus). Control perception and

you control everything right down to the reality that people

perceive to be ‘me’ and ‘life’. Against this background it is

hardly a surprise that the entire Archontic system is aimed

at programming perception and the onslaught is unremitting

from cradle to grave. Edward Bernays, the Austrian-

American ‘father of public relations’ and nephew of

psychoanalysis guru Sigmund Freud, wrote the following in



his

1928

book,

Propaganda:

F igure 3 2 3 : What forest? I see only twigs.

F igure 3 2 4 : A butterfly wing in close up but without the context who

would

know what it was?

We are governed, our minds are molded, our tastes

formed, our ideas suggested, largely by men we have

never heard of ... In almost every act of our daily lives,

whether in the sphere of politics or business, in our social

conduct or our ethical thinking, we are dominated by the

relatively small number of persons ... who understand the

mental processes and social patterns of the masses. It is

they who pull the wires which control the public mind.

Bernays said the secret was ‘engineering the consent’ to

control and regiment people ‘according to our will without

their knowing about it’. He described this as ‘the true ruling

power in our society’ and called it an ‘invisible government’.

This is also known today as the secret government or ‘Deep

State’ (although the two have different roles) which

continue ongoing to advance their agenda while here-today-

gone-tomorrow politicians present the illusion of being in

charge. Archontic ‘bloodline’ software networks and their

human lackeys have created a fantastic global structure of

mind control and perception manipulation that operates

from the shadows and promotes its agenda though social

engineering operations of every conceivable kind, including

‘education’ and the mainstream media. Significant swathes

of the ‘alternative’ media now play their part, too.

Programming is most effective when the population is in a



state of fear or trauma. I have described trauma-based mind

control on individuals, but this is also done on a mass scale.

A traumatised mind becomes extremely suggestable – this

is well known – and after the attacks of 9/11 and the fake

official explanation it was easy to win support for the

invasion of Afghanistan and the ‘war on [of] terror’. The

Rothschild-connected Frankfurt School, established by fellow

Zionists in the 1920s, is among the most infamous of social

engineering operations. It was first based, as the name

suggests, in the Rothschild home city of Frankfurt, Germany,

and then also located in Switzerland and the United States.

These were some of the Frankfurt School’s ambitions to

transform human society (you might recognise them):

Creation of racism offences; continual change to create

confusion; teaching of sex to young children (it now

happens as young as four); huge immigration to destroy

national identity; promotion of excessive drinking; emptying

of churches [undermining any form of social cohesion and

community]; a legal system with bias against victims of

crime; dependency on the state or state benefits (then

removing them once dependence was achieved]; control

and dumbing down of the media; encouraging the

breakdown of the family. The last one can be found on most

social engineering wish-lists for reasons that will become

obvious.

F igure 3 2 5 : Welcome to Planet Earth where you do what we say

and believe

what we tell you.

Get them young – get them for life Parents

are the first perception manipulators on behalf of what I call

The Program, as is anyone else with regular contact in a

child’s earliest years (Figs 325 and 326). The great majority

are not doing this knowingly or through malevolence, but

because they have been through the same programming

process that their child has just begun. Parents have

downloaded the fake sense of reality – The Program – and

believe it to be real. They have accepted its version of life,

self, possibility and all its musts and mustn’ts, dos and

don’ts, and they pass on these perceptions to their children

in the belief they are ‘doing the right thing’ (what The

Program has told them is the ‘right thing’). Children are then

pressured to conform and this does not even have to be

done openly or through overt force. It’s often done that way,

especially and most outrageously by the indoctrination of

religion, but it doesn’t need to be that blatant. Constant

repetition of reality through words or example is all that it

takes for the child to believe this is the way life is. This is

what you do, what you think, how you behave, see others

and the world. Most people are so systematically insecure

that they don’t want to stand out by being different or

perceived by programmed ‘normal’ to be ‘a bit weird’. The

influence of the frightened-of-its-own-shadow reptilian brain

is crucial to this. Parents mostly don’t want their children to

be different as they sit meekly in a perception and

behaviour prison based on ‘What will the neighbours think?’

and ‘What will the teacher say?’ Expanded awareness

replies ‘couldn’t care less’ to such questions, but to the

programmed conformer that is blasphemy. A parent of a

young footballer shouted at me once for disagreeing with a

refereeing decision because I was teaching her child to

question authority. ‘What if he questions his teacher on

Monday now’, she cried. Yes, what if? Children soon learn

from the parent program that conforming is easier than

going your own way and they are being prepared for a

lifetime of doing exactly the same. How many parents seek

to mould their children to conform to norms rather than let

them develop in their own way? The question answers itself

with a modicum of observation. Parents that set out to

impose their will, perceptions and personal desires on their

offspring are in my view engaging in child abuse. Many

parents want to live their lives through their children and

pressure them into activities, jobs and careers that they

don’t want to do but are made to feel guilty for not

pursuing. ‘Your mother is so upset.’ Really? Good. It might

help her wake up and grow up. I have met people late in life

who still felt guilt at not pleasing their long-gone parents.

It’s crazy. How about criteria such as are children happy?

Are they fulfilled? Do they have joy in their life? They do?

Okay, good. Whatever they’re doing must be right for them,

then. Parental programming is only part of the perception

deception and nothing like as important as it used to be as

the state takes over parental roles although it remains

extremely significant. Religion is also now less perceptually-

relevant in some countries and cultures but remains the

foremost programmer in others. Elsewhere the prime

downloaders of perception today are the state, particularly

the Deep State back in the shadows, in league with

government, ‘education’, mass media, social media, video

games and ‘smart’ technology which are all, in the end,

controlled by The Spider. I’ll deal with the technological level

of this in later chapters.



F igure 3 2 6 : Most parents pass on their own programming to their

children from

the earliest age.

Child-stealing state State control of children is

infiltrating parental influence and decision-making on an

ever-gathering scale. The reasons relate to the socially-

engineered breakup of the family unit to allow total state

control of childhood and perception programming from the

earliest age. This was predicted by insider Aldous Huxley in

Brave New World and demanded by the Frankfurt School

and almost every other social engineering wish-list I have

seen. Encouraging or forcing mothers to seek employment

even if they would rather focus on their children is one way

this is being done. Never mind what is better for the kids –

what is best for the agenda is all that matters. The

Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development

said that Australia’s employment rate of single mothers was

too low, and efforts should be made to help older women,

indigenous Australians and all mums into the workforce.

Stay-at-home (children-focused) mothers were the ‘greatest

untapped potential’ for Australia’s workforce and were

creating ‘potentially large losses to the economy’. Money is

the only criteria for life then? One moronic journalist said

that ‘it should be illegal to be a stay-at-home mum’. The

writer will be too utterly stupid to realise the scale of

tyranny being advocated. This excuse for a journalist will

have no idea that pressure on mothers to work outside the

family and a long list of other techniques are designed to

dismantle the family unit. Film producer Aaron Russo who

worked on Trading Places with Eddie Murphy made great

efforts before he died in 2007 to expose what he knew

about the global conspiracy. He told of meetings with lawyer

and businessman Nick Rockefeller who he said tried to

recruit him into the El-ite’s Council on Foreign Relations.

Russo said Rockefeller told him about 9/11 and the

subsequent war on terror a year before they happened

(more later) and with regard to the current subject, how the

Rockefeller Foundation funded the feminist movement or

‘Women’s Lib’ to promote the separation of mothers from

their children and give the state more control. The

Rockefeller Foundation, like so many others, including the

Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, uses the cover of (tax-

free) ‘philanthropy’ to fund the agenda. Russo said

Rockefeller told him the motivation behind funding and

promoting the feminism movement was to be able to tax

both sexes instead of only primarily one and to get children

into school and state control at an earlier age ‘to

indoctrinate them how to think’. The idea was to have

children looking to schools and the state as their family and

not their parents – destruction of the family unit.

Children are also being stolen by the state from loving

parents worldwide on an industrial scale, as I have

mentioned. Tens of thousands of children have been taken

from parents by social services in Britain alone – increasing

year on year – and a growing percentage of those cases are

manufactured and bogus. At least one local court was found

to be processing 50 such cases a day (Fig 327). Nor is this only a

British problem. It is happening in the United States

and around the world. The human consequences for both

children and parents in terms of emotional trauma and

broken lives are incalculable and almost unimaginable.

Confirmation that this is systematic comes with the ever-

rising numbers of state-stolen children and the financial

incentives to authorities and social workers to remove

children from their families and use secret courts to hand

them against their will to financially-rewarded foster parents

and adoption. The state would not be that callous? No, you

wouldn’t be that callous – the Archontic state majors in

callousness. This is the same state exposed for shipping

more than 100,000 children from Britain to be subjected to

rape, torture and slavery in Canada, Australia, New Zealand

and Zimbabwe to provide white British bloodstock; a state



that unlawfully took the children from their families and

made them suffer ‘exceptional depravity’ in work camps

and as servants to paedophiles. These kidnapping schemes

between 1869 and 1970 were supported by charities and

church groups with royal patrons including the shapeshifting

Satanist, the Queen Mother. The British government knew

what was happening and subsidised this inhuman outrage

with taxpayer money. No, surely not. The state wouldn’t be

that callous.

F igure 3 2 7 : Parents need to take their children back from the state

before they

lose them altogether.

Financial incentives are encoded at every stage to oil the

wheels of state child kidnapping and the same with

government targets for the number of children that have to

be taken by the state every year. Assess the circumstances?

No, no, check how many more we need to meet the target.

Only the psychopathic and sociopathic without empathy or

heart could possibly do this, and that is why social services

have been recruiting such people apace at the expense of

those with compassion and decency who should be doing

the job. Teachers, doctors, dentists and others are

encouraged to report the most minor perceived ‘problem’ to

social services to start the sequence of child stealing, and

most of them will have no clue of the injustice and trauma

they are triggering. There is a particularly disturbing trend

of doctors and medical personnel collaborating with social

workers, police and prosecutors against mothers and

pregnant women. New guidelines to education and medical

staff issued in 2017 by the UK National Institute for Health

and Care Excellence (NICE) said that parents of children who

have temper tantrums in class should be considered

potential abusers or guilty of neglect. One guideline says

that staff should consider abuse if a child displays behaviour

that differs from what is normal for children of that age or

developmental stage. Think about the potential for that to

open the floodgates. Numbers of state-stolen children

climbed rapidly when war criminal Tony Blair introduced

emotional criteria for claims of parental abuse and that

handed vastly more power to the subjective opinion of the

social worker chasing targets. Authorities claim cases of

abuse are increasing year on year – but so are the criteria

for what is defined as abuse and the two are obviously

connected. Children are being removed from families who

refuse to accept a doctor’s treatment for their child (like

deadly chemotherapy for cancer) or even when they want a

second opinion. Medical fascism is increasingly part of life.

Parents are even being reported by vindictive neighbours

out of spite and that’s how simple it is because the state is

looking for any excuse to kidnap children. Parents find

themselves in a secret court where media reporting is

banned, desperately trying to keep their children in the face



of a judge (paid by the state), lawyers (paid by the state),

social workers (paid by the state) and ‘experts’ (paid by the

state) who are called to give ‘evidence’ by social workers

(paid by the state) and lawyers (paid by the state). This is a

complete stitch-up, as it is meant to be (Fig 328). I have

seen some of these cases at close hand and it is a disgrace

to justice and the most basic humanity. Among them have

been mothers who lost their sexually and satanically-abused

children to Satanist fathers on the orders of a clearly rigged

judge. Satanic and paedophile rings infiltrate every area of

society – including the judiciary.

F igure 3 2 8 : Secret courts where proceedings can’t be reported are

the cover

for incredible injustice which the public never hears about.

Children who are in abusive situations should of course be

removed immediately, but that is not what this is all about.

Highly-publicised ‘mistakes’ (not always) by social workers

who leave truly abused children with their abusers provide

the excuse to take more children from loving parents with

public support. ‘You have to protect the children,’ people

say. Yes, and that should include protecting them most of all

from the state, which is the prime abuser and kidnapper of

children. They also need protecting from those in the

medical profession who have them removed from parents

who disagree with their often unsupportable diagnosis and

ask for another opinion. Secret family courts, which are

legendary for their corruption and collusion, are justified by

claims of protecting children when they are secret to protect

this abomination. State-stealing of children is connected to

hijacking childhood to allow for maximum control of

perception by taking kids from parents that have a mind of

their own. You will find brilliant documentaries exposing this

global scandal at www.petemiddletonpictures.co.uk/traffic-2

and see also forcedadoption.com (Fig 329). ‘Free Scotland’

provides a clear example of where we are heading with its

planned ‘named person’ scheme to assign a representative

of the state to every child from birth to at least 18. The

named person is a health visitor for a preschool child and a

‘promoted teacher’ for those of school age. These ‘persons’

would oversee the child’s upbringing and contact social

services if they are unhappy with what is happening across

a range of possible situations. Given that satanic and

paedophile rings have infiltrated social services and the

system in general you can appreciate the potential for this

named person imposition to dramatically increase the

numbers of children stolen by the state. At least one

designated ‘named person’ has already been dismissed for

sending images of child sexual abuse. There has been

tremendous opposition from parents and others to this

shocking state imposition which has delayed its widespread

introduction, but Nicola Sturgeon, the mirror-worshipping-



not-very-bright leader of the ruling Scottish National Party,

cracks on regardless in a typical response from the ‘do what

I say’ political class which pervades the entirety of

Archontically-created politics from far left to far right.

Sturgeon is so deluded that she thinks there can be an

independent Scotland within the EU dictatorship, which is a

contradiction of terms taken to extreme levels of absurdity.

So, stage one of lifetime perception programming begins

with parents and now the state is making moves to take

over even from that.

F igure 3 2 9 : A documentary that exposes the child-stealing scandal.

Schools: Programming prisons for kids Life-

long programming stage two is when state perception-

hijacking really kicks in as children enter the school system

(Fig 330). I prefer ‘school system’ to ‘education system’

because it is far more accurate. ‘Education’ in this context is

only a synonym for programming, and as Albert Einstein put

it: ‘The only thing that interferes with my learning is my

education.’ We return to the theme of education and science

as a journey to prove the textbooks right, not to question

them. One of the most profound forms of programming is

familiarity. This may sound strange, but it isn’t. When

something becomes familiar – ‘how things are’ – it bypasses

the conscious mind without further debate or questioning. It

becomes subliminal or ‘below threshold’ and fades into the

subconscious as a reflex state of acceptance. We are

bombarded with subliminal advertising and images all day

every day that speak to the subconscious without us ever

knowing that this is happening. These messages enter the

mind through that 11 million minus 40. What is planted

below the threshold of conscious awareness later seeps

through to the conscious mind as ‘I’ve had a thought’ in the

way that I described with symbolism. The foundation of



subliminal communication is indeed the use of ... symbols.

We have the same principle with familiarity. State education

virtually every weekday for the entirety of a child and young

person’s formative years is taken as a ‘gimme’ by most

people, and a gimme is only a term for subconscious

acceptance. A gimme = I don’t question it. Well, we should

question it. We should question everything. If something

passes that scrutiny then fine; but most ‘gimmes’, in my

experience, dissolve in a flash when asked by a conscious

mind to justify themselves. The whole basis of what I have

been doing for nearly 30 years is to bring to conscious

attention what is hidden away in the subconscious or

peripheral vision.



F igure 3 3 0 : When the perception programming goes into overdrive.

F igure 3 3 1 : The real reason for the ‘education’ system.

Deep breath ... this is the ‘education system’ made

conscious and it’s not a pretty sight (Fig 331). If you wanted

to impose the almost perfect method of producing adults

that think and perceive in a way that suits your agenda you

would come up with today’s indoctrination machine

masquerading as ‘education’. Children enter the ‘world’ and

undergo initial perception programming from mostly state-

programmed parents before the state takes virtually total

control of a child’s mind. One consequence of early-years

programming at home and school is that the child is pulled

out of the NOW and locked away into a perception of past

and future which is a major pillar of The Program. American

psychologist Professor Philip Zimbardo has made this point

about parents and schools taking ‘present orientated

children’ and making them future, sometimes past,

orientated. Children arrive in this reality and within only

three or four years they are sitting at a desk while an

authority figure representing the perception program of the

state is telling them when they have to be there, when they

can leave, and when they can talk, eat and even go to the

toilet. A simple question to highlight the insanity and child

abuse: What are children doing on lovely sunny days sitting

at a desk in a classroom bored stiff and unable to move

while the birds are singing outside? The birds are free while

the kids are enslaved (Fig 332). For the rest of their

childhood into their teenage years they are told the state’s

version of everything five days a week (plus homework) and

then tested in exams on how deeply they have absorbed the

programming. The more they absorb, accept and recycle

onto the exam paper the more ‘successful’, ‘clever’ and

‘bright’ they are officially judged to be. If they absorb The

Program in the extreme they are dubbed ‘super students’

and awarded a ‘degree’ to confirm their degree of

programming. But if you question what you are told, don’t

accept it or are bored shitless by it all (like I was) then you

are considered a failure who is intellectually substandard

(Fig 333). One thicker-than-thick ‘alternative’ radio

presenter once said that I should not be taken seriously

because I didn’t have a degree. Einstein once again was on

the money: ‘Everybody is a genius, but if you judge a fish by

its ability to climb a tree it will live its whole life believing it

is stupid.’ This captures in a single sentence the reason that

mass ‘education’ was introduced in the form that we see.

Education fakery is there to make climbing the tree

(believing what suits The System) the entire goal while at

the same time supressing any potential or gifts that The

System doesn’t want or need (like free thought). Control

perception and you control reality (Fig 334). Charlotte

Iserbyt worked at the US Department of Education and was

a policy advisor to the Reagan administration. What she





experienced in that period made her a vehement

campaigner to expose the calculated programming of

children in the ‘education’ system. She had access to

documents detailing what she calls the ‘restructuring’ of

American and global education and how computerisation of

schools was introduced to make perception programming

easier and more effective. Her book, The Deliberate

Dumbing Down of America, is a must-read. Iserbyt explains



how a training manual was produced to show staff how to

turn the American ‘education’ system into something akin to

communist brainwashing. The manual was called

Innovations in Education: A Change Agent’s Guide by

Professor Ronald Havelock. Iserbyt describes how parents

with a mind of their own – called ‘resistors’ – were

systematically

targeted:

F igure 3 3 2 : On their way to the programming laboratory.

F igure 3 3 3 : It’s the same the world over.

F igure 3 3 4 : This is the whole foundation and goal of The Program

from cradle

to grave.

I was trained to identify the resistors. The resistors ...

[were] ... those good, smart Americans who realize that

anything that has education hanging off the end of it is

probably not what they’re looking for. I was trained to

identify those good people, and to go up against them,

and actually to go and try to get them to join us through

the group process system. Make them feel important, get

them on a committee ... and that just blew my mind.

How often I hear the following phrase issuing forth from

the mouth of political ignorance or mendacity: ‘Education

must prepare children for the workplace.’ Sometimes this is

said by the Archontically manipulative, but mostly by the

Archontically programmed. They cannot see how extreme

and insane it is to say that Infinite Awareness with infinite

potential should be programmed and moulded to fit the

requirements of governments, giant corporations and an

economic structure established and controlled by the El-ite

for their own benefit. John D. Rockefeller, the American oil,

banking and pharmaceutical tycoon and Archontic Reptilian

incarnate, founded the US General Education Board at the



start of the 20th century for the very reasons that I am

exposing here. He said: ‘I don’t want a nation of thinkers – I

want a nation of workers.’ I want a nation – every nation – of

unthinking cogs in my machine so I can turn children with

such zest and potential into automatons that will do

whatever I say (Fig 335). Rockefeller’s co-founder and

business advisor, Frederick T. Gates, said it all: In our dream

we have limitless resources, and the people yield

themselves with perfect docility to our moulding hand. The

present educational conventions fade from our minds; and,

unhampered by tradition, we work our own good will upon a

grateful and responsive rural folk.



We shall not try to make these people or any of their

children into philosophers or men of learning or of science.

We are not to raise up among them authors, orators,

poets, or men of letters. We shall not search for embryo

great artists, painters, musicians. Nor will we cherish even

the humbler ambition to raise up from among them

lawyers, doctors, preachers, statesmen, of whom we now

have ample supply.

F igure 3 3 5 : Preparing children to serve The System and never the

other way

round.

© David Dees And that is what has happened although some

still slip through the net.

F igure 3 3 6 : Left and right brain process reality in very different

ways and The

System wants to imprison perceptions in the left side.

Left, right, left, left, left ...

We return to the two hemispheres of the brain to explain a

foundation reason for why they specifically do not want to

‘raise up’ from the masses authors, orators, poets, artists,

painters and musicians. The Program doesn’t want anyone

from the target population with an ability to write and speak

intelligently and engagingly enough to expose The System

on any level. Nor do they want poets, artists, painters,

musicians and other creative people who are invariably

influenced by the creative right-hemisphere of the brain (Fig

336). Little ‘time’ and money is spent in schools on music,

art and drama compared with left-brain subjects (all the

rest). I saw an advertisement for a car company some years

ago that used the left-brain-right-brain contrast as its

theme. The way it described the perceptions (decoding

processes) of the two is very relevant to why ‘education’ has

been structured as it is: I am the left brain. I am a scientist.



A mathematician. I love the familiar. I categorise. I am

accurate. Linear. Analytical. Strategic. I am practical. Always

in control. A master of words and language. Realistic. I

calculate equations and play with numbers. I am order. I am

logic. I know exactly who I am.

I am the right brain. I am creativity. A free spirit. I am

passion. Yearning. Sensuality. I am the sound of roaring

laughter. I am taste. The feeling of sand beneath bare

feet. I am movement. Vivid colours. I am the urge to paint

on an empty canvas. I am boundless imagination. Art.

Poetry. I sense. I feel. I am everything I wanted to be.

F igure 3 3 7 : Left-brain-dominated perception is another standing

wave going

nowhere and a prison for the mind – which is why the left-brain is the

target of

the ‘education’ system.

The decoded brain is holographic and all parts will be

involved in everything, but it is a matter of degree and

specialisation. Thanks to ‘education’ programming left-brain

perceptions are those of mainstream science, politics,

economics, business, medicine and media – Mainstream

Everything. They also apply to much of the five-sense-only

‘alternative’ media. These are all products of The Program,

which has its home largely in the left side of the brain which

sees everything in linear terms and the illusion of ‘time’ and

you cannot have a free world without free minds (Fig 337).

Other left-brain labels in that car advertisement are purely

self-delusory – ‘accurate’ (on The System’s terms), ‘in

control’ (thinks it is), ‘realistic’ (from The Program’s

perspective), ‘logical’ (ditto) and ‘knows exactly who it is’

(thinks it does). Perceptual traits of the left-brain are also

embodied in the perceptual and astrological influence of

Saturn. The right brain is everything the Archontic Reptilians

and their hybrid El-ite don’t want, with its potential to

express creative free spirit and boundless imagination and

to sense and feel beyond The Program. We breach The

Program, the Matrix, by sensing, feeling and intuitively

knowing, not by thinking. I saw an excellent video

presentation by psychiatrist and writer Iain McGilchrist

talking about the divided human brain. Division is the core

of the problem because both hemispheres are supposed to

work as one unit to create a coherent multi-faceted whole.

McGilchrist explains how the left brain has a narrow focus

(point of attention) on detail while the right perceives the

panorama or big picture. People who lose the use of their

right brain have a narrowed ‘window of attention’. The

crucial word here is context. The left-brain sees detail while

the right-brain sees the context of the detail. It connects

dots and sees the forest. Context is all and if you only see

the pieces you’ll never see the picture (Fig 338). Reality

without context is just a bewildering bunch of apparently

unconnected happenings. McGilchrist says the left-brain is

knowledge of the parts while the right-brain is wisdom about

the whole. This is a perfect description of the difference

between the two. He also says that the left-brain is focused

upon knowing ever more about what is already known. The

state version of ‘education’ is about knowing ever more

about what is already known (or claimed to be known).

‘Education’ sets out to create left-brain prisoners

perceptually entrapped in the realm of often meaningless

detail at the expense of the absolutely vital right-brain

context. ‘Education’ is one of the most crucial guards on the

gate to protect the left-side of the brain from right-brain

influence (Fig 339). Intellectual-type subjects are being

introduced even in preschool environments to stimulate the

left brain from the earliest age to overwhelm the right, and

there is a campaign to destroy the imagination/right-brain

awakener that we call ‘play’. The period when children can

simply play is being squeezed by ‘education’, including

homework. They target the left side of the brain that sees

pixels, not pictures, and twigs at the expense of the forest.



We have confused knowing (heart awareness) with

knowledge (downloaded ‘facts’) and wisdom (heart) with

knowledge (head). Put another way we have confused

memory with knowledge and knowledge with wisdom. We

are led to believe that the opposite of ignorance is

knowledge or the absorption of what the state tells us to

believe. These are not opposites. Perceived knowledge, too,

can be – and usually is – ignorance. The mystic Osho

explained it perfectly:

F igure 3 3 8 : Pieces will never show you pictures unless they are

connected



together through context.

F igure 3 3 9 : The System protects the left-brain from right brain

influence.

© www.neilhague.com

Knowledge has no capacity to dispel ignorance.

Knowledge is a false phenomenon. It is not wisdom at all;

it is just the opposite of wisdom. Knowledge is borrowed;

wisdom is the flowering of your innermost being ... No

university can offer it, no scripture can offer it and no

scholarship is capable of doing it. They are all impotent

efforts, but they have been deceiving millions of people

for thousands of years. Yes they make you knowledgeable.

To be knowledgeable is one thing, to know is totally

different.

Homework is there to further impinge upon a child’s

potential for play and imagination and fill the mind with

often irrelevant ‘knowledge’. Parents in Spain where 15-

years-olds have some 6.5 hours of homework a week have

complained how their children’s free time (daydream time,

ponder time, play time) has disappeared. They need to

know that this is done from the shadows with complete

calculation. Orchard elementary school in Vermont stopped

homework with great success and this highlighted the

negative effect that homework has on children’s lives and

wellbeing. The school principal reported that after six

months students had not fallen back academically and now

had time ‘to be creative thinkers at home and follow their

passions’ (The Program’s worst nightmare). Many parents

said their children were reading more from their own choice.

Others who have stopped homework have had similar

outcomes. John Taylor Gatto, a former teacher, said the

school system seeks to subdue creative, inventive, and

bright students and make them obedient, subdued and

dependent individuals by controlling their school time and

then continuing in to what should be free time through

homework. This is a point I have been making for decades.

Gatto is quoted as saying: Today the tabulation of hours in a

young life reads like this: My children watch television 55

hours a week according to recent reports, and they sleep

56. That leaves them 57 hours in which to grow up strong

and competent and whole. But my children attend school 30

hours more, spend 8 hours preparing for school, and in

goings and comings, and an additional 7 hours a week in

something called ‘home’-work – although this is really more

schoolwork except in ‘Newspeak’ [George Orwell’s concept

of deception through language].

After the 45 school hours are removed a total of 12 hours

remain each week from which to fashion a private person

– one that can like, trust, and live with itself. Twelve hours.

But my kids must eat, too, and that takes some time. Not

much, because they’ve lost the tradition of family dining –

how they learn to eat in school is best called ‘feeding’ –

but if we allot just 3 hours a week to evening feedings, we

arrive at a net total of private time for each child of 9

hours ...

...This demented schedule is an efficient way to create

dependent human beings, needy people unable to fill their

own hours, unable to initiate lines of meaning to give

substance and pleasure to their existence. It is a national

disease, this dependency and aimlessness, and schooling

and television and busy work ... has a lot to do with it.

All this is done to suppress potential and turn children into

computer minds programmed by the El-ite-controlled state.

Whatever ‘time’ is left after school and homework is

increasingly spent on the mind-manipulating technology of

smartphones and video games and this is again by design.

We can now see why the Archontic System wants to

suppress the right brain and why ‘education’ is in the

frontline of this. Here we have the reason, too, for worship

of the left-brain intellect. Someone deemed to be clever is

said to be ‘intellectual’ or have a ‘great mind’. Well, a great

mind, maybe, but not necessarily an open connection to

awareness outside The Program. There is a chasm of

difference between the intellect and innate (intuitive,

expanded awareness) intelligence. They are absolutely not

the same thing. Archons trawl and exploit humanity’s

intellectual ‘creativity’ (like technology development) and

suppress the boundless potential of expanded awareness

which would see through their game. This answers the

question posed by shaman Don Juan Matus: Think for a

moment, and tell me how you would explain the

contradictions between the intelligence of man the engineer

and the stupidity of his systems of belief, or the stupidity of

his contradictory behaviour.

Intellect is The Program and produces the scientist,

doctor, politician, banker, CEO, academic and journalist.

They are convinced of their intellectual superiority when

they don’t begin to understand the world that they believe

they have intellectually figured out. They listen but they

don’t hear. They look but they don’t see. Intellect is the left-

brain and the perceptual prison cell. To worship and be in

awe of intellect is to worship and be in awe of your own

enslavement. I am not saying that intellect should be wiped,

but that it must be balanced. The intellectual left-brain

should be the servant of expanded awareness as the

interface with five-sense experienced reality. Instead it has

been manipulated to become the master and the computer

has overridden the guy with the keyboard and mouse. This

quote is attributed to Einstein although there is doubt about

the source. Either way it tells it like it is: ‘The intuitive mind

is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant.

We have created a society that honours the servant and has

forgotten the gift.’ Canadian-born psychiatrist Eric Berne

described the difference so well when he wrote: ‘The

moment a little boy is concerned with which is a jay and

which is a sparrow he can no longer see the birds or hear

them sing.’ Archontic manipulators fear the potential of the

right-brain, but there is something they fear more and that

is whole brain balance. Left-brain dominated people are

consumed by structure, hierarchy, intellect and a sense of

limitation and separation. Right-brain domination can be

extremely creative with highly active imaginations, but so

‘out-there’ those people struggle to function and impact

upon ‘down-here’. When the two come together as one

interacting, mutually-supporting whole they can be

devastating for The System because they are ‘out-there’

and ‘down-here’. They are in this ‘world’, but not of it in

terms of their prime point of observation. They can still

function in the illusion while knowing it is an illusion. This is

the bottom-line reason for the incessant attack on the right

brain to block this unity and coming together. As a result,

often the most potentially extraordinary people are

portrayed as failures by the ‘education’ system. My son

Gareth is a brilliant singer-songwriter, multi-talented and all

round bright bloke, but he was given an E in many of his

exams. He didn’t mess around with just Cs or even Ds. He

was even more bored by school than I was, and he has done

all his learning in his own time and on his terms in the same

way that I have. Please consider this, anyone who feels a

failure because ‘I wasn’t good at school’. Neither was I.

Don’t let this crap define you – that’s what it seeks to do.

Diane Ravitch, an American historian of education, policy

analyst and writer, said: ‘Sometimes the most brilliant and

intelligent minds do not shine in standardized tests because

they do not have standardized minds.’ The whole point of

mainstream ‘education’ is to make sure that they are either

standardized or get nowhere if they aren’t. The cumulative

effect on perception was confirmed in a study by Kyung Hee

Kim, professor of education at the College of William and

Mary in Virginia, involving a very large number of school-age

children between kindergarten and 12th grade. This is what

she found:

A massive decline of creativity [right brain] as ‘children

have become less emotionally expressive [right brain],

less energetic, less talkative and verbally expressive, less

humorous [right brain], less imaginative [right brain], less

unconventional [right brain], less lively and passionate

[right brain], less perceptive [right brain], less apt to

connect seemingly irrelevant things [right brain], less

synthesizing [right brain], and less likely to see things



from a different angle [right brain].

This transformation of behaviour and perception is

achieved through the carrot and stick technique of reward

and punishment and by simple repetition week after week,

month after month, year after year that batters the right-

brain into submission. I was fortunate in that school passed



me by without touching the sides and I daydreamed myself

through most of it.

F igure 3 4 0 : Force the young to follow the rules every day at school

and most

will absorb that perception and reaction pattern for life.

F igure 3 4 1 : School’s out!! No prison for a week.

Rules is rules (and madness) Carrot, stick and

repetition implant the belief that The System knows best

and is always right and that it’s far easier to follow the rules

than to question them. This is psychological preparation for

a lifetime of believing in The System and following the rules

that The System imposes (Fig 340). ‘You have to follow the

rules – where would we be if we didn’t?’ We would live in a

very different world. Teachers may be representatives of the

state in the classroom, but they, too, are in prison and have

to follow their rules or lose their career. This symbolises the

entire Archontic Reptilian human hierarchy as each level

follows the rules and demands of the level above. You only

have to witness the joy that children and young people feel

when they walk out of school at the start of a holiday. ‘No

school for a week – YEEEEES!’ (Fig 341). This is the reaction

of a prisoner walking free from jail at the end of a sentence.

School is a programming prison and institutionalised slavery.

It’s not? So, children can turn up and go home whenever

they want, can they, or choose not to go at all? In many

countries neither is true and they want the same to be the

case everywhere. Hour after hour children and young people

are forced to traipse from left-brain lesson to left-brain

lesson not able to talk when they want to or eat when they

are hungry or mostly even question what they are told to

remember and repeat in exams. It’s programming-tests-

exams, programming-tests-exams, week after week, month

after month, year after year. What happened to developing



the individual and the whole person? What happened to

childhood? This is mass global child abuse and few can see

it because the whole outrageous farce has long entered the

psychological invisibility of familiarity. I daydreamed my

school years away to avoid the stupefying boredom and

limitation of it all. ‘Icke – stop daydreaming!!’ Fuck off. Even

worse is the pressure imposed to do well in examinations

which are designed to test how skilled you are at absorbing

The Program. Education is all a giant hoax to pass off

programming as learning. How much of what you learned at

school and regurgitated in exams have you actually used or

even remembered? Next to bugger all in the case of most

people, and this after spending an entire childhood learning

what they soon forget or never need. I mean, algebra. WTF

is all that about? What does ‘x’ equal? Couldn’t care less,

mate, whatever turns you on (Fig 342). What are we doing

filling young minds with this irrelevant crap that 99 percent

of them will never use? The answer is in the question ... to

fill their minds (Fig 343). We have young people committing

suicide over not passing exams or fearing that they won’t.

Give me a better definition of insanity than to put

youngsters – or anyone – through that (Fig 344). Figures

from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

reveal that suicides among 10 to 14 year olds have doubled

since 2007, and among girls in the same age group they

have tripled in 15 years. Peter Gray, a Boston College

psychology professor, said after studying the data that the

mental health of children is directly related to school

attendance. Visits to psychiatrists drop dramatically during

summer holidays when academic and exam pressures were

lifted only to spike again when school restarted. Gray

concluded:





F igure 3 4 2 : X + Y equals what? Don’t give a shit.

F igure 3 4 3 : Take a walk and climb a tree, kids. It’s lovely outside.

F igure 3 4 4 : This is what childhood should be like, right? I mean

that’s why they

were born – to know what X means.

The available evidence suggests quite strongly that school

is bad for children’s mental health. Of course, it’s bad for

their physical health, too; nature did not design children to

be cooped up all day at a micromanaged, sedentary job.

Gray said that children with anxiety problems changed

when removed from school and ‘... behaviour, moods, and

learning

generally

improved

when

they

stopped

conventional schooling’. Anxiety related to school and

anxiety in general among children and young people is

going through the roof as they are forced to spend more

time at school than ever before. A study by the American

Psychological Association in 2013 said that school is the

main source of stress for teenagers. The report noted that

83 percent of teenagers said that school was ‘a somewhat

or significant source of stress’ while 27 percent said they

suffered from ‘extreme stress’ during the school year; a

figure that dropped to 13 percent during school holidays.

Parents are often adding to the pressure, either under the

delusion that exam results confirm intelligence or to bask in

reflected glory. ‘My son/daughter has won a place at

Oxford.’ Yes, your son or daughter did that – not you. Left to

themselves they probably wanted to do something else,

anyway. Some parents even put stickers on their cars to

advertise their child’s exam passes. The much-missed

American comedian, George Carlin, said: ‘Here’s a bumper

sticker I’d like to see ... We are proud parents of a child who

has resisted his teachers’ attempts to break his spirit and

bend him to the will of his corporate masters.’ The fact that

those parental sentiments are so rare is testament to the

power of The Program to perceptually control succeeding

generations. Each yearly inflow of children is largely left to

go it alone in the lair of the merciless state as they

systematically download the following lessons for life: •

Truth comes from authority

• Intelligence is the ability to remember and repeat

• Accurate memory and repetition are rewarded

• Non-compliance is punished

• Conform intellectually and socially

Schools are dramatically increasing their control over

children, with parents marginalised, and this is heading

somewhere as we shall see. Parents in the UK are fined if

they take their children on holiday during term time when it

is much cheaper. When one father refused to pay and took

the case to court the British authorities spent £ 140,000 of

taxpayers’ money to successfully defend their right to

impose their will on children and parents. This is another

important point. Governments use taxpayers’ money to get

their way while taxpayers have to use their own to defend

their rights against the governments that they fund. Head

teachers are being appointed as automaton administrators

of the state agenda and not for their educational prowess.

One headteacher of small children that I know would be far

more suited to running a prison than a school, and she is

fast becoming the norm. A crazy school in the UK actually

advertised for the head of a ‘Behaviour Correction Unit’ and

‘director of isolations and detentions’ at £ 29,000 a year

insisting that the right applicant must be a disciplinarian

who ‘demands obedience at all times’. The advertisement

added: ‘If you think it is mean to give a detention when a

student does not have a pen, this is not the school for you.’ I

would not think it was the school for anyone with an ounce

of intelligence still intact. This sounds like a job advert for a

prison because it is. They just call it a school. Magna

Academy in Poole, Dorset, is run by Richard Tutt (Tutt, Tutt,

surely) who is known as one of the country’s strictest

headteachers. He appears to be the personification of when

your only tool is a hammer every problem looks like a nail.

Pupils are reported to be routinely given over-the-top

punishments for minor ‘indiscretions’, including ‘having

pencil cases and rulers of the wrong length’. Andrew Mears,

a headteacher for 26 years, said he had thought at first the

advertisement was a joke (it was, just not funny). He was

concerned about the effect on the pupils’ mental health. He

should be. Imagine waking up every morning knowing that



you have to watch everything you do and say to avoid the

wrath of these barely-one-dimensional people? Welcome to

Planet Earth – Mr Tutt Tutt is in control of your life now. Let’s

not ask why some pupils are not automatons who bow to

their masters at the blackboard with unquestioning

acquiescence. Let’s not celebrate that some kids have a

mind of their own or ask if there is something happening in

their lives that makes them disruptive. They have

transgressed the lunatic prison-school rules and they must

be punished – punish them and force them to conform to

The Program’s pea-size perception of reality (Fig 345). The

arrogance and conceit is breathtaking.



F igure 3 4 5 : The whole point of ‘education’ for the Hidden Hand.

F igure 3 4 6 : Children are being prepared to accept this as ‘normal’

for the rest

of their lives.

Many schools even insist that children wear hot and heavy

blazers in ferocious heat because rules are rules, and this is

still more confirmation that you don’t have to be intelligent

to run a school. Having a mind of your own and the ability to

make mature decisions in the light of the circumstances

before you is clearly a bad career move. ‘Staggering

numbers’ of UK teachers want to leave the profession as a

result of what is happening and Rebecca Allen, director of

the Education Datalab think tank, says that children across

the country are being taught by teachers who do not want

to be there, but are trapped by the need to make a living.

The Archontic agenda is for the imposition of a global police

state in which every aspect of human life is controlled and

under surveillance. Young people are being prepared to

accept this as normal and ‘the way things are’ by building

big walls and fences around schools and making them even

look like prisons. A school around the corner from me was

nothing like that until relatively recently, but now there is a

high fence with the grounds compartmentalised into

sections, each with its own locked gate. This is how prisons

and zoos operate. If all that was not necessary before then

why is it now? There are no reasons except those that they

make up, and all have their foundation in manufactured fear

and in preparing children to accept such enslavement as

normal for the rest of their lives. Schools and colleges have

surveillance cameras everywhere and in many American

schools children have to pass through airport-like checks

before they reach the classroom (Fig 346). Police are often

in residence at schools in the US or on immediate call to

respond to situations that teaching staff previously dealt

with and there are endless cases of police brutality in

schools as psychopaths in uniform are given control over

children. None of this is about protection, but instead a

lifetime acceptance through familiarity of mass surveillance

and the police state. Older people have the compass of

seeing how surveillance and control has increased to

extraordinary levels while children and young people don’t

have that compass. To them it’s normal – all they have

known – and so what is there to question? The plan is to

privatise education (like everything else) and hand

children’s minds and perceptions to giant corporations

which are all directed by the same global network with The

Spider at the centre. We already have corporations taking

over schools and turning exam pass results into financial

gain with not a care for the children as human beings and

unique individuals. Get good marks – it’s great for business.

My observation and experience is that if Microsoft’s Bill

Gates is promoting something through his Bill and Melinda

Gates Foundation then it must be bad for humanity. Gates

has been at the forefront of transforming the American

education system and one of his stated plans is for a

camera in every classroom. He just cares about children,

you see.

Another way ...

Home schooling is soaring in response to what is happening

as more aware parents remove their children from the state

laboratory and have them educated independently. As this

continues you will see more efforts by the state to demonise

and legislate against home schooling. This must not be

allowed to happen. I read a report about how an armed

police ‘SWAT’ team in the tyranny that is Germany arrived

without warning, threatened to batter down the door of a

home schooling family and kidnapped their four children.

The Home School Legal Defense Association said the family

were disputing the ‘World War II-era requirement that all

children submit to the indoctrination programs in the

nation’s public schools’. Witnesses said the ludicrous raid by

these numbskulls for the crime of not wishing to have

children mind-programmed was ‘brutal and vicious’. The

parents were not told where their children were being taken

and were warned they would ‘not be seeing them any time

soon’. The mother was blocked from kissing a child goodbye

by a psychopathic police officer who said, ‘it’s too late for

that’. The emotional impact on children imposed by these

empathy-deleted ‘child-protectors’ seems not to matter.

This is the world we are living in, with the Archontic

demonisation of anyone who bucks The System. A bill

proposed by arrogant and idiot politicians in West Virginia

would ban home schooling. Once again, the Home School

Legal Defense Association is on the case and they must be

getting very busy as The System seeks to block any effort to

free children from their programming.

The best form of independent education for me is termed

‘self-directed learning’, which allows children to decide what

they want to learn based on their passions and interests or

experiences that they have. Psychology professor Dr Peter

Gray concluded in his study that children’s mental health

particularly improved when they engaged in self-directed

education where they had more freedom and control of their

own learning. In the process of researching and pursuing

their interests they learn how to read, write and other skills

normally delivered as separate ‘lessons’. This frees the

child’s mind from the straightjacket or state-jacket and their

brains develop differently and process information

differently through brain placidity (changing the brain

through information input and the way it is used). State-

controlled ‘education’ is actually causing the brain and its

information processing pathways to develop in a communal

fashion through communal information received and that’s

another reason why so many people think and react

(decode) in the same way – with a herd mentality. Another

facet of all this is to ‘protect’ children from everything and

anything that would help them become independent people

and instead make them look to the state for guidance and

protection from the ever-growing list of ‘dangers’ they are

told to be frightened about. ‘Health and Safety’ Mafiosi in

Britain are constantly thinking of new ways to stifle

children’s development by banning everything from

climbing trees to playground games and having sports days

cancelled because the grass is ‘damp’. What this is doing to

children can be confirmed in what happens when you do the

opposite. An outdoor nursery in Dorset, England, is based in

woodland where children clamber over trees, play on rope

swings, saw wood, chop vegetables and cook lunch over an

open fire. Government inspectors were reported to be

‘astonished to find the children showing unusually high

levels of confidence and independence’. Some schools in

Texas have had tremendous results from giving children two

15-minute break times every morning and afternoon for do-

what-you-like ‘unstructured play’ in a move inspired by the

experience in countries like Finland. Teachers at Eagle

Mountain Elementary in Fort Worth report that children are

learning more because they are better able to focus in class

and pay attention. Others have introduced meditation

instead of punishment and seen clear improvements in

behaviour. This is what could be happening everywhere but

it isn’t because the Web doesn’t want that and most

teachers are so programmed by the state they would never

consider such a change in approach. State obsession with

stopping sporting competition in schools is connected, too.

‘Everyone must get a prize’ dilutes incentive to improve at

whatever is involved. Everyone has unique gifts, and

education should be developing them and not telling

children they can’t pursue their gifts to full potential

because it will make children with other gifts feel inferior.

This is the downward spiral to communal mediocrity that

Archontic Reptilians and their hybrid El-ite have set out to

achieve.

A matter of degree Schools are only the first stage

of the education program. Another accepted norm today

(familiarity) is that young people must go on to college and

university. Why? ‘Well, that’s what you’re supposed to do,

isn’t it?’ Yes, but why? And who says? I left school at 15 and

never took a major exam in my life. I have taught myself

what I need to know on my own terms. Why would I have

been better going to university? I wouldn’t and in fact the

opposite is the case. University would have been to the

detriment of my understanding as I spent even more years

downloading the ‘reality’ The System wanted me to believe

in. I have been taken aback at some of the students I have

met and debated with at major universities such as Oxford

and Cambridge, and observed the software responses and

perceptions which they mistake for intelligence and being

informed. This doesn’t apply to everyone and I have been

immensely encouraged to see how many young people –

nothing like the majority but increasing in numbers – have

been through the sausage machine and yet retained their

own right to free thought. I am seeing a fork in the road

where many young people are awakening from The Program

while others go ever deeper into it. Perceptions and

behaviour of the latter on college campuses around the

world crosses the line in my opinion into the realms of

psychological illness and I will come to that in due course.

Another Archontic aspect of so-called higher education in

more and more countries is to make students pay for their

own programming and get mired in debt to corporations for

decades and potentially for life (Fig 347). Debt means

control and trapping people in a financial bind from their

teenage years, which forces them to serve The System on

its terms to pay back their debt to the same System.

Student debt is catastrophic. At the time of writing nearly 45

million American students owe $1.3 trillion in loan debt to

pay for their education (programming) and the figure is

rising at around $2,726.27 every second according to a debt

clock developed for MarketWatch.com. Higher ‘education’

fees in the UK (introduced by Archontic Tony Blair) are

claimed to be the most expensive in the English-speaking

world with an average per student closing in on £ 50,000. A

2017 report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) said that

three-quarters of graduates will never pay off their student

loans, while many will still be paying them back into their

50s. Students from low-income families were racking up

education bills of £ 57,000. Here we have children stressing

over their exams to secure grades good enough to go to

university and be swamped by debt (control) at the very

start of their lives. They do so because there are so few jobs

when they leave school and, well, that’s what you do, isn’t

it, go to university? Ironically, there are also few jobs, and

certainly few well-paid ones, comparative to numbers when



students leave university. Many then realise that what they

have spent their formative years striving for – a degree (of

programming) – was actually a hoax ... and a very

expensive one. Universities and colleges are not places of

learning today so much as places of earning. Pack ’em in

and pile ’em high. Every new student is a till-ringer. If you

want to do something and a degree in this or that is the only

way to get there I can understand why people do it. But

going to university for its own sake to rack up debt for

decades at least? That is surely madness. Don’t fall for the

hoax because that is all it is. Don’t let them kid you that

pieces of paper define you and your life, success and failure.



They DO NOT – unless you allow them to. What will your

parents and others think? Who gives a damn? That’s their

problem, not yours. They are themselves, but you are YOU.

It’s your life, not theirs.

F igure 3 4 7 : Students held fast in debt slavery – control.



F igure 3 4 8 : The hierarchy starts with school.

F igure 3 4 9 : Know your place.

‘Education’ also programs many young people to know

their place in the Archontic hierarchy. Private schools for the

wealthy produce the leaders and administrators (the

governors) while state schools produce the workers and

slaves (the governed). There is some overlap, but

shockingly small (Figs 348 and 349). I was told as a kid on a



Leicester council estate to ‘know my class’. I never accepted

that even then. ‘Class’ is another program both for ‘upper’

and ‘lower’ classes and an illusion to obscure the fact that

we are one Infinite Awareness. ‘Upper’ and ‘lower’ class

‘education’ is designed to emphasise and sell that illusion.

There are few more programmed with The System’s

software than those ‘educated’ at private schools and they

then go into positions of power and influence to impose

their programmed perceptions on the population, with

almost none of them realising they are programmed at all.

But they are, and by now massively so, along with almost

everyone else who has been through the ‘education’ system



whether private or state (both controlled by the Archontic

El-ite).

F igure 3 5 0 : The desperately narrow band of possibility that humans

call

‘normal’ and ‘the real world’. It is neither ‘normal’, except in the sense

of

constant repetition, nor ‘real’.

F igure 3 5 1 : We are sheep so you must be. We’re normal – you’re

mad ... baa,

baa, baa ...

Programmed child = programmed adult The

whole point of fake education is to guide and shepherd the

minds of the population to the same collective perception or

what I call the Postage Stamp Consensus (Fig 350). This is a

common and severely limited view of reality, possibility and

‘normal’ which children and students have spent the first

phases of their lives daily downloading. Postage stamp

perception goes like this: We live in a solid world and

everything is apart from everything else; we are our name,

race, background and whatever other labels we choose to

apply to ourselves and each other; and history, physics,

science, medicine and reality are all that The System says

they are. Where is Infinite Awareness and All Possibility?

They never get a mention. Postage Stamp Consensus is an

infinitesimal speck of possibility, and when compared with

infinite possibility the (systematic) myopia is staggering.

This confirms the contention of German philosopher Arthur

Schopenhauer that ‘every man takes the limits of his own

field of vision for the limits of the world’. Schopenhauer was

born in 1788 and he was describing human society as it still

is today. Not everyone buys the Postage Stamp reality, but

the manipulators know that if they seize the minds of the

great majority any dissenters or free thinkers will be largely

kept in line by peer pressure (Fig 351). This is the process by

which those who have bought the official version of normal

insist that everyone else does the same or face collective

ridicule, condemnation, dismissal or contempt. There is also

a phenomenon which underpins the Postage Stamp known

as ‘entrainment’ when brainwaves synchronise together in

line with the most powerful frequency. If you place three

violins together vibrating to the same note another violin

placed alongside will start to vibrate to the same note even

though it was playing another or none before. A study in

Current Biology by researchers from New York University

and the Max Planck Institute of Empirical Aesthetics found

that brainwaves synchronise into similar patterns when

students pay attention in class and when those in a group

are engaged with each other. Co-lead author Suzanne

Dikker said: ‘We think that all these effects can be explained

by shared attention mechanisms during dynamic group

interactions.’ But having the same perceptions which lead to

shared attention and focus can also synchronise brainwave

activity because perceptions are frequencies and shared

perceptions = shared frequencies. Postage Stamp

Consensus is a collective standing wave construct.

Collective thoughts sharing the same perceptions literally

combine their compatible frequencies to create a standing

wave oscillating on the spot and encompassing information

or perception fields that reflect the accepted norms of what

constitutes the world and reality. Schools and universities

are founded on such standing waves and so are centres of

politics, media etc. These standing waves and the

information they oscillate in their stationary fields are added

to every day by the thoughts and perceptions that emanate

from those in their midst. Anyone entering these collective

frequencies and oscillations who do not hold fast to their

own personal oscillation (perceptions, values) find

themselves being vibrated into line or ‘entrained’ into the

collective oscillation (perceptions, beliefs, behaviour traits).

This is how collective herd minds are formed as standing

waves, and why many people go into politics for genuine

reasons but soon become everything they went into politics

to oppose. They have been entrained into the collective

standing wave oscillation and so they think and behave as it

does. Once you monopolise a sense of ‘normal’ everything

else automatically follows. At least sheep need a shepherd

and sheepdog to keep them in line. The System is the

shepherd, but humans have long dispensed with the dog

(Fig 352). They keep each other in line through the

arrogance of ignorance and this is collective psychological

fascism (Fig 353). Anyone who challenges the Postage

Stamp is waved away as mad, stupid or dangerous and

often (as with me) all three (Fig 354). This is no different

from prisoners in a cell combining to stop another prisoner

escaping and this can start at the earliest age. Even small

children can target children who are considered in some

way different. This reaction is encoded in their information

fields by the counterfeit spirit and can only be overridden by

opening to conscious beyond The Program. Part of the role

of ‘education’ and media is to activate these latent

responses and reactions although the foot soldiers won’t

know that.





F igure 3 5 2 : Sheep need a sheepdog to keep them in line – humans

police each

other.

F igure 3 5 3 : I can’t hear you – I only have ears for the Postage

Stamp.



F igure 3 5 4 : The arrogance of ignorance.

Programmed programming All across society we

have programmed programmers. Government/military mind

control operations program people to program others and

collectively we have the same principle. The most

programmed are invariably those who have been most

successful in their school and university careers. They are

the ones who have absorbed the Postage Stamp most

comprehensively and told their examiners what they want

to hear. They will have also stayed in the psychological

programming unit (‘education’) for the longest. The

System’s obsession with university degrees to secure its top

jobs is not by chance. Okay, you might say that a degree is

confirmation of an intelligent mind and that’s why they do

it; but it isn’t either in the sense of a confirmation of

intelligence or why they really do it if you go deep enough in

the shadows. A degree is really a confirmation of the ability

to absorb and remember information and tell The System

what it has told you. Somewhere within that psychology is

at least a subconscious acceptance of authority’s

omnipotence. There will be exceptions, there always are,

but I am talking generally in all that I say here. The

educationally and perceptually programmed go on to

become politicians, government administrators, scientists,

doctors, academics, judges, lawyers, CEOs, journalists, etc.

They take with them into those society-directing and

controlling

professions

the

core

Postage

Stamp

programming and its sense of ‘normal’. They then spend the

rest of their lives confirming to each other that their

downloaded version of reality is how things are when it is

largely myopic nonsense (Fig 355). I can summarise the

consequences in a single sentence: The world is run by

people who are not very bright but think they are. This is a

devastating combination. Politicians make decisions and

impose laws based on their downloaded sense of ‘normal’

and most scientists make conclusions about reality from the

same perspective. Doctors treat, academics teach, judges

judge, lawyers advocate, CEOs rule and journalists report all

from the same core belief in Postage Stamp normal. They

are making decisions as if the world is solid (limitation)

when it’s not (infinite possibility). Journalists writing about a

health topic won’t go to an alternative practitioner who may

have great understanding of the subject. They will consult a

doctor who will quote the Postage Stamp. The same

happens with any (rare) journalistic exploration into the

nature of reality. They will go to scientists who sing from the

song sheet. Postage Stamp programs and advocates confirm

to each other and the public that the Postage Stamp is

omnipotent when it is only an agreed-upon collective

hallucination. I have met or observed at close range many

people from all these society-directing professions and the

scale of their perception programming never ceases to

amaze, nor their arrogant dismissal of another view.

Exceptions are so few they prove the rule. All day every day

television shows wheel out ‘experts’ (usually the most

perceptually programmed) to tell the public what to think

and do. Perceptually-blind interviews perceptually-blind and



they call it expertise. Central to the whole delusion is to

persuade people that they ‘get it’ when they don’t even

begin to ‘get it’ (Fig 356). The System is a self-generating

perpetual/perceptual motion machine, a conveyor belt for

the mind like any on a factory floor. Raw material (children)

enter at one end and they are processed into adults who

serve the machine until they wear out and drop in the trash

can (cemetery) or recycling bin (reincarnation) at the other.

Those that can see what is happening or some aspect of it



are silenced by peer pressure and ridiculed and demonised

by the media if they are in the public eye. This continues

generation after generation after generation – work, buy,

consume, die, work, buy, consume, die. They call this ‘life’,

apparently, but it is not life. It is existence. It is survival. It is

The Program. It is the simulation. It is the Matrix. You are a

slave, Neo.



F igure 3 5 5 : Postage Stamp people programmed by the same

System – I’m

right, you’re right, he’s right, she’s right, we’re all right.

© www.neilhague.com

F igure 3 5 6 : Exactly where The System and The Program want you

to be.

F igure 3 5 7 : I am a label. The only question is which ones do I

choose?

Who am I? What I am told to be A sense of

‘little me’ will lead to a particular perception of authority

and a sense of powerlessness in the face of perceived all-

powerful authority leads to a sense of ‘little me’. Only self-

identity with Infinite Self – Infinite ‘Me’ – can break yet

another self-perpetuating cycle. The perception of ‘little me’

is a standing wave oscillation holding that perception in

place until awareness beyond the oscillation comes in to

allow the stationary wave to move and expand its vision of

the possible. All but a few self-identify with labels such as

man, woman, black, white, British, American, French,

African,

Christian,

Muslim,

Jew,

Hindu,

socialist,

conservative, middle class, working class, name, age and

birthdate. I refer to this as label consciousness and the

subsequent self-identity as Phantom Self (Fig 357). People

constantly enslave their minds by labelling their perceptions

of self-identity. These labels (the number is increasing and

subdividing all the ‘time’) are not who we really are. They’re

simply words to describe what we are experiencing. ‘We’ are

Infinite Awareness having those experiences. But how can

you mass control and mind-scam billions in awareness of

the infinite magnificence of who they really are? You can’t.

They won’t accept your control for a start and they will see

through any machinations you employ to impose it covertly.

To mass control you must promote a self-identity with

Phantom Self which in all its principle functions and

perceptions is five-sense self. Education, media, science,

medicine and all forms of mass communication therefore

peddle a belief in the apartness of everything rather than

unity. They pore over the twigs and ignore the forest. This

focuses attention almost entirely in the five-sense realm of

the holographic simulation, like a moth to a flame.

Peripheral vision fades and what is left is the light of the

oncoming train delivering a lifetime of programmed

perception. Most young people leave the ‘educational’

womb of their foundation programming and head out into

the adult world with this downloaded sense of self and

reality. Their options, ambitions and dreams are consciously

and subconsciously dictated by The System and the self-

identity downloaded from The System. Control of global

finance, business and government means that the Archontic

Hidden Hand decides who gets the money, jobs and

support, and who doesn’t. Adult life for the majority is one

of constant survival (reptilian brain), while for others it is

chasing dreams usually based on money, status and power

(reptilian brain) that The System has told them is success.

Software insecurity programs pulsing through the human

waveform field and the manipulation of fear mean that

comparatively few are secure in and of themselves. They

seek reassurance from how others see them and this has

many consequences. People will not say what they really

think if it is at odds with the Postage Stamp worshipped by

the consensus, and to be heralded as a success to placate

their insecurity they must succeed in a way that others

perceive as successful. Who decides that? The System does.

They sell us our dreams to keep us asleep. How much

money do you have? How famous are you? How much

power over others and events do you have? A need for fame

to mask insecurity is why Hollywood, entertainment and

media attract so many insecure people and explains the

obsession with being famous at any cost. Reality TV shows



feed off such emotional dependency. Those conscious

beyond The Program have no need for such ego-massaging.

They are what they are and what others think of them does

not enter the equation when the mirror comes into view. You

can see why the Hidden Hand and its System works so hard

to suppress any connection to expanded awareness. If they

didn’t, it would be game over.

F igure 3 5 8 : Gotta, gotta, gotta, must, must, must.

You leave school or university and BANG - THEY’RE OFF!

Gotta, gotta, gotta, must, must, must (Fig 358). I must

survive! I must succeed! I must compete! I must be

someone! The Program is life-long and works the same the

whole way through. To hide the programming, they have to

sell the illusion of choice and pin different labels to

apparently different phases of life when they are really only

different names for the same continuation. You are, for

example, offered a long list of choices for bagels, breads,

coffee and cheese, but usually only two (and virtually

identical) for which group of people runs the government.

They give you choices with things that don’t matter to them,

and next to none with things that do. Adult life is promoted

as different to school and university life when they are a

continuation of the same program. Mum walks in to tell her

still-sleeping child: ‘Come on, darling, you’ll be late for

school’ (prison). When the ‘education’ phase is over a

partner walks in and says: ‘Come on, darling, you’ll be late

for work’ (again often prison). ‘What will the teacher say?’

becomes ‘What will the boss say?’ Labels have changed but

the outcome is the same. In fact, the adult version is worse

because the child can get a telling off while the adult faces

being out of a job and unable to pay the bills. Fear is the

currency of control – fear of the teacher, fear of the boss,

fear of government, police, taxman, each other. The System

is a ball and chain at every ‘phase’ if we succumb to it. Then

there is the dangle-a-carrot deal. During the ‘education’

years the carrot is work hard, do what you’re told and

sacrifice childhood to study and revision and you’ll get your

reward with a ‘good job’. In the adult years the carrot is

work hard, do what you’re told and sacrifice life to career

and ‘getting on’ and your reward will be ‘success’ or at least

financial survival (Fig 359). Never live in the moment – the

NOW. Always focus on the next moments in the illusory

‘future’. Life is what happens while you’re busy making

others plans, as John Lennon superbly put it. This is the

whole idea. Archontic society is structured to hold fast the

perceptions of entrapped and bewildered Spirit to stop

people ever grasping what is really going on. If you can

keep them focused on the future that doesn’t exist their

attention is enticed out of the NOW, the door to expanded

awareness where all answers await. Focus on the illusory

‘past’ is equally effective. Keep them focused on their hopes

and ambitions for ‘tomorrow’ and their resentments and

regrets from ‘yesterday’. What a scam ‘hope’ is, too. Where



does ‘hope’ by definition always relate to? It’s the illusory

‘future’. Hope keeps you out of the NOW where hope is

redundant. Hope as a figment of the ‘future’ has no place in

the eternal NOW. I give you hope = I give you a carrot. Don’t

eat it all at once ... but, no, sorry, you can’t eat any of it,

can you? It’s always just too far ahead. Never mind, accept

the shit we give you today in the hope it will be better

tomorrow. Then, when tomorrow comes, do the same.



F igure 3 5 9 : My goodness this carrot moves as quickly as I do. I

better try

harder.

F igure 3 6 0 : He’s so successful. Well done.

A Martian speaks ...

The System is specifically designed to generate maximum

fear, anxiety and stress and my goodness does it work, or

what? Billions are stressed by the fear of not surviving,

paying the rent and putting food on the table, while others

are stressed by the pressure of being so ‘successful’ (Fig

360). Most fear not having enough money while others fear

losing the money they have or not making still more.

Anxiety and manipulation of fear and perception ensure that

we impose pressure and stress on each other whether the

others be children or perceived hierarchy subordinates.

Parents and teachers pressure children to conform and

‘achieve’ (pass exams, get a good System job), and each

hierarchical level of society exerts pressure on the level

below. Meet that grade, reach that target, sell that crap.

This serves the Archontic force by hijacking focus,

suppressing vibration and generating a constant supply of

‘food’ through the frequency band of fear, stress and

anxiety. Another bonus is that when people are in emotional

turmoil they stop thinking straight as imbalances in the

emotional field impact upon the mental one. If you are not

thinking straight how can you see through The Program?

This mind game is so effective that people get up before the

sun and work into the night to be ‘successful’, ‘make it’ or

simply keep the boss happy. They are so focused on the

goal there is no peripheral vision or big picture

reassessment. Questions like ‘Why am I doing this?’, ‘Where

am I going?’ and ‘Why?’ remain unasked and unconsidered.

Gotta, gotta, gotta ... must, must, must (Fig 361). But why

have you ‘gotta’ and what is this ‘must’? Pull back for a

moment from five-sense focus of Phantom Self. What would

a Martian say looking down on human society who was

asked to describe what happens here? Well, the Martian

would say, first you are born and almost immediately you

enter a system of perception control that will be unceasing

until you ‘die’. The first phase downloads the foundation

perception of reality and tells you want to think about

everything and what you should consider rational and

normal even though this ‘normal’ is insanity to anyone with

even a smear of expanded awareness. A fundamental

foundation of the entire hoax is inverting human perception

to make insane appear sane and sane appear insane (Fig

362). They piss on us and we say it’s raining (Fig 363). Our

Martian would observe that once the initial programming is

complete humans then spend the rest of their lives either in

poverty barely surviving or making and selling ‘things’ that

people are persuaded to ‘need’ and ‘desire’ when they often

don’t even want them once money is exchanged. Those too

old and frail to continue to do this mostly retire on a

pittance of a pension, or none at all, to complete their lives

watching every penny while often cold and hungry in a

familiar state of bare survival. A few have worked all their

lives decade after decade to save for a good pension and

retirement so they can do what they want in their final

years. Most of their life has been focused on enjoying the

end of it and everything in between is sacrificed to work for

a ‘future’ that doesn’t exist. Then, when this cycle is over,

er, you die. The Martian would shake his head and say:

‘Madness isn’t it?’ And it is. Human society is a madhouse

which so many believe to be on the cutting edge of

evolution because they can text their mate in an instant on

the other side of the world (Fig 364). Such is the power of

programming and familiarity (programming). I am not

saying that nobody’s job is worthwhile or that things are not

made that we need in our current state of consciousness.

Nor am I saying that everyone finds their job boring and

wakes up dreading every new day. But look around at the

ratio and far more is made that we don’t need, far more

done that doesn’t need doing and far more greet the dawn





with dread and despair every morning than those who greet

it with joy. Something is seriously wrong.

F igure 3 6 1 : Keep on running ... but to where?

F igure 3 6 2 : Sanity, apparently.





F igure 3 6 3 : The human condition.

F igure 3 6 4 : Insanity that thinks it’s sane.

© www.neilhague.com

Money, money, money, funny money ...

Control of the creation and circulation of ‘money’ is pivotal

to holding The System together and dictating human life

choices, or lack of them. Money is controlled by the

Archontic few within the less-than-one-percent. Dutch

financial insider Ronald Bernard said earlier that at the

centre only a very few people control global finance.

Archontic Reptilian bloodlines established the money system

(especially through the Rothschilds) and this is their vehicle

to limit choice and control what people do and produce by

dictating where the money goes or doesn’t. Their obsession

with money is far more about control than seeking mega

wealth only for the sake of it (in the Deep State, I mean). I

have exposed how the money scam works in considerable

detail in The Perception Deception and other books because

it is so crucial to how mass control is possible. There is a

video explanation on Davidicke.com which you can access via the search engine with the words ‘essential knowledge

for a Wall Street protestor’. If you ensnare people in a

system that demands money for everything including the

basics of life and survival you impose a collective

dependency on the few who run that system and both

create and circulate the money. You want a home? You want

to eat? Then do as we say or you’ll get no money. How

many people are not doing what they really want to do with

their lives because they ‘don’t have the money’? The

number is off the scale and includes almost everyone. Yet

money is another illusion, another hoax. Archontic control of

governments which I will explain later has allowed laws to

be passed to hand power over global society to the

Archontically-controlled banking and financial system. This

is founded on fractional reserve lending which means

private banks owned by Archontic Reptilian hybrid families

can ‘lend’ money that doesn’t exist called ‘credit’ and

charge interest on it. They can lend some nine or ten times

more than they actually have (much more in truth with

other manipulations) and charge interest on the lot – charge

interest on illusory ‘credit’ that has not, does not and will

never exist (Fig 365). Put a dollar in a bank and it can lend

that dollar multiple times and charge interest on every loan.

People think they are borrowing ‘money’ from banks when

it’s only a conjuring trick on the balance sheet. ‘We will loan

you the money to buy a house’ really means we will create

credit out of nothing against the value of the house and we

will retain ownership until you pay us back – with interest.

People and families are being thrown on the street for not

being able to pay back ‘money’ that has not, does not and

will ever exist, and so could not have been ‘lent’ in the first

place (Fig 366). Archon bloodline banks are ‘lending’ you an

illusion that only has value because people believe that it

does. In return bankers get the collateral of your house,

land, vehicle or business. If you fail with the payments and

interest because you lose your job the bank takes your

home as we have seen with the mass foreclosures since the

crash of 2008. One-percent of humanity (largely Archon

families) own some 50 percent of the world’s wealth. This

has been made possible by centuries of swapping created-

out-of-nothing credit (money that doesn’t exist) for wealth

that does exist – property, land, businesses and resources.

Give a man a gun and he can rob a bank. Give a man a bank





and he can rob the world. Give a man control of the banking

system and he can own the world. Nathan Rothschild (1777-

1836), who built the family empire in Britain, said:

F igure 3 6 5 : How the banking system controls the world.



F igure 3 6 6 : Outrageous madness but humanity rolls over and takes

it – most

don’t even know how ‘money’ is created.

I care not what puppet is placed upon the throne of

England to rule the Empire on which the sun never sets.

The man who controls Britain’s money supply controls the

British Empire and I control the British money supply.

He could have said today that the man who controls the

world’s money supply controls the world because that is the

situation we face.



F igure 3 6 7 : Compartmentalised pyramid that controls world

finance.

F igure 3 6 8 : Ask most politicians about the role of the Bank For

International

Settlements and their blank face will say it all. The human hierarchy is

a

structure founded on compartmentalised ignorance.

The global web with The Spider at the centre owns and

controls the banking system and through the Web

apparently different organisations like the World Bank,

International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank

(ECB) and national central banks are simultaneously

coordinated to the same end even though they appear in

the public arena to be operating independently. One of the

prime vehicles for this coordination is the Bank for

International Settlements in Basle, Switzerland, a private

organisation established in 1930 by Archontic Reptilian

families (notably the Rothschilds and Rockefellers) where

the heads of national central banks meet regularly outside

of governments to agree collective policy (be told what it is).

Figures 367 and 368 symbolise the structure of compartmentalised hierarchy that allows the few to dictate

national and global economic decisions and direction.

Money overwhelmingly comes into circulation not through

governments but through private banks (ultimately owned

by the same Web) making loans of nonexistent credit and

credit is debt. The very unit of exchange that we call money

starts out from its very ‘creation’ as a debt. Money is

created as a debt and debt = control. This domination by

the Archontic Reptilian banking system over the creation of

the currency allows them to decide how much ‘money’ is in

circulation by how much illusory credit they choose to ‘loan’.

Booms and busts are created at will by increasing or

decreasing the amount of theoretical ‘money’ in circulation

that is available for people to spend. Interest rates are

manipulated to the same outcome. This is the ever-recurring

sequence: (1) issue lots of credit and get lots of people and

businesses in debt to money that doesn’t exist; (2)

dramatically decrease the money in circulation by reducing

the number of loans and/or increasing interest rates to

trigger an ‘economic downturn’; (3) steal all the real wealth

that you have taken as collateral when your debtors can’t

repay the credit ‘loan’ plus interest. That’s another thing –

the interest. Banks only ‘create’ and ‘lend’ the amount you

have agreed to borrow, but you are repaying that figure plus

interest. The interest is never created and so there is never

even nearly enough money in circulation, theoretical or

otherwise, to pay back all the outstanding debt in the form

of principle and interest. People losing their homes, land,

businesses and livelihoods is built into the very structure of

the financial system on purpose. This is less obvious during

a boom with lots of money in circulation but becomes

painfully apparent when the money supply is curtailed.



F igure 3 6 9 : Birth of the bail-in.

Could it get any more insane? Yes, it could. Archontic

governments also borrow from Archontic banks in the same

way and the population is made responsible for paying it

back, plus interest. Virtually every country is owned by the

banking cartel because of this. Why don’t governments

issue their own money interest free? Simple – the same

network that controls the banks controls governments via

the same Web. Why did bankers who caused the crash of

2008 (and every other) end up afterwards wealthier than

ever while the public that bailed them out is mired in

austerity and stuck with repaying the bailout money

(borrowed from the financial system that was bailed out)?

Governments and banks are two strands in the same Web.

Bailouts are now being replaced by bail- ins since the

manufactured banking crisis in Cyprus in 2011 (Fig 369).

Bailouts come from governments (the people collectively)

while bail-ins make it legal for banks to steal the money of

their depositors to get themselves out of trouble. They call

this a depositor ‘haircut’ in the parlance. Money is safe in

the bank? You must be joking. When a bank crashes, you

are only an unsecured creditor. Bail-ins are the means

through which the El-ite plan to part everyone from their

money including those today who think they are doing well

and that none of this is their problem (Fig 370). If you are

not part of the one percent (much less in truth) they want

what you have, too, and they will get it unless people

refocus their eyes, see what is happening and come

together in unity. Laws continue to increase around the

world allowing governments to take money from bank

accounts without the holder’s permission and this is part of

the same agenda. Plans are in the pipeline by the EU to

freeze accounts of failing banks so their depositors can’t get

their money out. Criminal levels of taxation on almost

everything we earn and buy have been imposed so the few

can further vampire the population, dictate choice and

create dependency. If people realised how much of their

income goes in ever-burgeoning forms of taxation they

would be shocked to the core. Those on the left in politics

who demand higher taxation have no idea what they are

supporting. Oh, it helps the poor if you tax the rich? Really?

Anyone noticed that no matter how high taxation becomes

human deprivation goes on or gets worse and the same with

public services? Anyone noticed that it’s the not-so-rich who

bear the brunt of taxation while mega corporations pay so

little? Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern made the point

that Amazon and Starbucks pay a lower percentage of tax in

his country than a local sausage stall while Apple paid little

more than one percent tax on £ 7.5 billion in UK sales.

Google and Facebook are the same. Definition of parasite:

‘An organism which lives in or on another organism (its

host) and benefits by deriving nutrients at the other’s



expense.’ Taxation pays for wars and mass murder and most

of it is sucked through many and various means into the

coffers of Archontic families. Their armament companies are

only one example. Have you observed also that political

‘heroes’ of the Left and Right who claim to be ‘anti-

establishment’ and challenging the El-ite never talk about

how banks lend money that doesn’t exist or pledge to do

something about it? There are three main reasons for this.

The vast majority of politicians don’t understand how the

money system works; the next highest number haven’t got

the guts to address it; and the smallest number know what

is going on and support it as servants of the Web in

awareness of what they are doing. We fix the money hoax or



nothing can change. Governments issuing the currency

interest free and excluding the private banking system from

the creation of fresh-air money through fractional reserve

lending would be the place to start. Governments should

establish investment banks which create the currency and

circulate that interest free. The private criminal syndicate

banking system would then fall and humanity would have a

gigantic yoke off its back.

F igure 3 7 0 : A massive financial crash is planned at some point to

trigger bail-

ins and steal the wealth of those not within the El-lite.



F igure 3 7 1 : Pseudo-randomness or opposames. The same

program in different

guises.

F igure 3 7 2 : It’s a joke, right? Yep, confirmed.

The God Program I have long described religion as

the greatest form of mind control ever invented and so it

has been. Religion was invented to kidnap the minds of the

population and set them at war with each other. Nothing has

enslaved humanity this far more comprehensively than the

unquestioning, unyielding and immovable belief in the

multiple versions of the God Program. I mean ‘multiple’ in

the sense of so many different names, but it’s all the same

program structured in the same way (Fig 371). Recurring

elements are a congregation or group of followers; middle

men (usually men and usually in frocks) who tell you what

God wants you to do; and an omnipotent deity or god

(occasionally gods) as the focus of worship (Fig 372). Check

out almost every religion and you will see this repeating

blueprint. There is also ‘the book’. All perceptions, guidance,

inspiration and insight are located only between the covers

of ‘the book’, be it the Bible, Koran or whatever, even

though they normally don’t know who wrote ‘the book’ or in

what circumstances and with what encoded bias or motive.

Anyone who questions the particular orthodoxy is by

definition misguided, a blasphemer or in the most extreme

cases an infidel to be eliminated as with Sabbatean

Frankism’s manufactured Wahhabi Islam. Religion is for me

a form of insanity defined as chronic myopia and sacrificing

all rights to free thought. I was reading a news report while

writing this chapter about the behaviour of ultra-orthodox

Jews on flights with Israeli state airline El Al who refuse to sit

next to women. They say it’s against their religion and their

God wouldn’t like it. But their God created women, yes?

What happened, did he have a bad day? Help me out here,

I’m confused. If women don’t want to move from their seats

some of these religious crazies stand in the aisle refusing to

sit down (Fig 373). A Jewish group in Hackney, London,

displayed posters during a ‘Torah Procession’ telling women

which side of the road they had to walk ‘to avoid men and

women touching who are not married or related’ (Fig 374).

Can you contemplate being in fear from morning till night

every day in case you touch a woman however accidentally

to whom you are not married or related? The level of mind

and perception control is beyond comprehension. Another

Jewish sect sought to ban girls and women from higher

education because it was ‘dangerous’ and ‘against the

Torah’. Here are just a few – and I mean a few – of the things

that Jewish people are banned by their religion from doing

on the Sabbath (Shabbat, Saturn-day): Applying heat to

something in order to change it (baking for instance);

driving (fires are banned from being started or extinguished

and cars move with sparks and fuel); the same

heating/sparking deal forbids turning on electrical

appliances, lights, radios and televisions and the use of

telephones (lights must be switched on before the Sabbath

begins or you must remain in the dark); detach anything

that is glued, sewed or perforated and this includes ripping

off toilet paper and paper towels (don’t ask). On and on it

goes. Writing, drawing, erasing, even tearing a package if

the rip goes across letters and words is taboo. So, too, is

watering plants, picking flowers, handling money or putting

the finishing touch to an object. The list is excruciatingly

detailed, but one website I saw offered some good advice.

Tape lights in the bathroom so you don’t accidently turn

them on without thinking if you want a wee in the middle of

the night. Nice one. Pre-tear toilet paper and paper towels,

put pencils, markers and pens away and pre-open bottle

caps and packages before the Sabbath kicks in. You opened

a bottle on the Sabbath? Blasphemer! I also love the array

of get-out clauses which include light timers. They can be

used to automatically turn lights on and off so long as they

are set before the Sabbath starts. I bet they do a roaring

trade in North London, Tel Aviv and New York. There is

another wheeze of having a Gentile present who can do

anything because only God’s chosen people are subject to

this craziness. Another Sabbath law prohibits ‘transporting

an object between a private domain and the public domain,

or for a distance of 4 cubits within the public domain’. The

madness reaches such mind-exploding proportions that Jews

are banned on the Sabbath from anything considered work

which includes using wheelchairs and prams or holding

babies and keys outside a person’s home or garden. This

means that disabled and elderly Jews and babies often have

to stay at home from nightfall on Friday until nightfall on

Saturday when the nonsense ends. Who insists on all this?

Well, it’s what the Old Testament god demanded,

apparently. He’s a fucker that one. Jews in North London

have sought to surround their community with a six-mile

perimeter boundary using fishing wire suspended on tall

poles. No, I am not making this up. They say this would

create a huge ‘eruv’ which is defined as ‘an urban area

enclosed by a wire boundary which symbolically extends the

private domain of Jewish households into public areas,

permitting activities within it that are normally forbidden in

public on the Sabbath.’ Sounds like a bit of skulduggery to

me but it seems the Old Testament tyrant must be okay with

it. Such unyielding orthodoxy is a driving force behind the

State of Israel and yet most Jews don’t agree with these

religious-Zionist fanatics. A 2017 poll found that 55 percent

of Jewish Israelis want to reassess the fusion of Judaism and

the state which they believed reflected ultra-orthodox Jews

and not them. Almost 100 percent of secular respondents

questioned wanted the role of religion reduced or the

complete separation of religion and state, but their views

are rarely heard compared with the screaming extremists.





F igure 3 7 3 : Rule book minds of a rule book religion.

F igure 3 7 4 : Ahhh!!! Don’t you touch me.’

Madness masquerading as ‘faith’

Extremes of Islamic believers insist that women can only

appear in public with their entire body covered in black.

Eyes are thankfully exempt. How thoughtful (Fig 375).

Women are banned from driving in Saudi Arabia, the official

‘home’ of Islam, or rather Wahhabism, and cannot travel

unaccompanied or without permission. Children have been

forced to burn to death in fires and blocked from escaping to

a public place because they were not considered by Saudi

religious police to be in accordance with the dress code.

Fathers have been known to stop lifeguards saving their

daughters from drowning because it would involve them

being touched. Tunisian protesters demanded the right to

eat and drink in public during the Muslim fasting month of

Ramadan after non-fasters were arrested for ‘attacking

public morals’. There must be no laws against attacking

basic intelligence, then, or the authorities would be forced

to arrest themselves. Religious software can’t grasp the

concept that just because they give their mind away doesn’t

mean that everyone else has to. This is a universal theme of

The Program and not only the God version either which says

that you must believe what I believe. These are more

extreme cases and there are many saner expressions of

Islam, but even then, their whole perception of self, life and

the world is dictated by an ancient doctrine downloaded

through repetition and force since childhood. The same

happens with Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism and all the

rest of them. Major religions are all founded on ancient (and

not so ancient) doctrines which, once committed to paper or

tradition, rule the roost for often thousands of years while

anything above and beyond them is dismissed or

condemned. Where is free choice or thought when you

believe that to please your god you must get on your knees

five times a day and pray to Mecca (the Saturn cube)?

‘Muslim’ means ‘One Who Submits’. Sabbatean Frankist

Dönmeh Islamic extremists in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan go

around policing their population with fascist arrogance and

hand out their punishments at will to enforce their insanity

on others – especially women. Not believing in extremes of

Islam or being guilty of ‘atheism and blasphemy’ can be

punishable by death, so desperate are those states to



control the people through religious imposition. Do people

really think that the Dönmeh Sabbatean Frankist Saudi

‘royal’ family follow Islam in private? It’s their mass-control

system, that’s all. Religion can be – and often is – a form of

insanity both among the enforcers and parents who impose

it on their children. A Malaysian boy had both legs

amputated and later died after being repeatedly beaten at a

private religious school by a brain-dead maniac. Any religion

that has to employ violence and intimidation to maintain its

control clearly does not believe in the power of its

arguments to promote itself. Parental indoctrination of

children into any religion is a disgrace beyond words and

more child abuse when the right to free thought without



pressure or insistence to conform is denied.

F igure 3 7 5 : At the risk of repeating myself – it’s a joke, right?

F igure 3 7 6 : Mass slaughter buffalo – it makes the goddess happy.

But harm a

cow and you’re in big trouble. The gods like cows.

Hinduism is believed by many to be a more enlightened

religion and became the inspiration behind the emergence

of the Western New Age movement. I see just another

tyranny of the mind with its own multiple insanities. A man

was beaten to death by a Hindu mob in 2017 when he

refused to tell them the whereabouts of Muslim and Hindu

teenagers who had eloped in Uttar Pradesh. We can’t have

Muslims and Hindus fall in love with each other. That’s

against our religion where marriages have to be arranged to

suit tyrannical idiot parents and religious software

programs. Two small children were beaten unconscious and

electrocuted to death by an Indian father, again in 2017,

when his mother convinced him that the electrocution would

clear them of evil spirits and allow her to achieve

‘enlightenment’. Such is the inverted insanity of the

extreme religious mind. A ten-year-old girl was sacrificed in

India in 2017 in a ‘black magic ritual’ instigated by her uncle

and carried out by a black magician to cure a paralysed

man. Police said the killers believed the man had been

‘gripped by evil spirits’ and to cure him they had to

‘sacrifice a minor girl within 40 days.’ Until 2015 a Hindu

festival close to the Indian border in Nepal was held every

five years in honour of Gadhimai, the ‘goddess of power’,

and at least tens of thousands of buffalo and other animals

were killed in ritual sacrifice with some claiming the figure

to be a lot more (Fig 376). Millions turned up to watch the

killing which they believed would end evil and bring

prosperity. It never did and they couldn’t see that you don’t

end evil by committing it. Selling the animals to meat

suppliers afterwards was more likely to be the source of

prosperity. This was yet another mass sacrifice to the god or

goddess in the form of death and terror. A massive Archontic

energetic ‘lunch’ from a human religion which imposes its

perceptual will on its followers by the manipulation of fear –

fear of displeasing the gods and goddesses. You can please

them with an animal holocaust so long as it does not involve

a cow. The gods like cows. India’s state of Gujarat has

introduced life imprisonment for killing a cow with up to ten

years for possession of beef. Buffalos? Not a problem, the

gods are fine with that. Islam, Christianity, Judaism,

Hinduism, the basic theme is the same. Decide what ‘god’

or the gods want and then impose this by intimidation, guilt,

fear, law and even execution. Buddhism has its own

extremists despite its image as a religion of peace, with

attacks on Muslims in Sri Lanka and especially Myanmar

where a human catastrophe has ensued as vast numbers of

Rohingya Muslims flee persecution. Nearly all religions are

worshipping in some form the Demiurgic/Archontic self-



aware distortion and its nonhuman Reptilian and other

conduits (Fig 377). Their different versions of the same ‘god’

demand that they engage in such distorted behaviour and

belief because they are different versions of the same

Archontic distortion. Many religions pursue male domination

over female as we see with the extremes of Judaism, Islam

and Christianity with its centuries of opposition to women

priests. These male-dominated religions emerged from the

same Saharasia in the same period following the new



psyche which ushered in male-dominated societies (Fig

378). Religion is a creation of the new psyche to serve the

Archontic distortion and its expression as Reptilians and

Greys.

F igure 3 7 7 : Religions worshipping the fake ‘god’.

F igure 3 7 8 : Major religions emerged in the same place and in the

same period

as the new psyche.

Christianity has a history of tyranny, mass slaughter and

belief-imposition that makes Vlad the Impaler look like a

cissy. Untold multitudes have had their lives ended, blighted

and their perceptions limited for the best part of 2,000

years. Yet Christianity still provides the perceptual blueprint

for an estimated 2.2 billion worldwide. Christianity is really

the Church of Babylon which relocated with the bloodlines to

Rome from where Christianity emerged as we know it today.

The Babylonian trinity of Nimrod (father god), Semiramis

(virgin mother) and Tammuz/Ninus (virgin-born son) became

the ‘Christian’ trinity of Father God or Lord God, Jesus and

Holy Spirit which is symbolised as a dove. Babylonians

symbolised Semiramis, also known as Ishtar, as a dove and

the attributes and titles they gave to Semiramis/Ishtar

(virgin mother, Queen of Heaven) were handed to the

symbolic character they called Mother Mary (Semiramis

under another name). What is termed the ‘Christian’ story is

only a plagiarised repeat of the same basic narrative told all

over the world for thousands of years before Christianity.

There are so many pre-biblical virgin mothers giving birth to

saviours (Fig 379). See The Perception Deception and the

chapter ‘Archon Religion’ for the detailed history and

background to the religion myth. Babylon was an origin of

today’s



human-sacrificing

Sabbatean

Frankism

and

Satanism which is why Babylon-inspired Christianity

involves rituals like the Eucharist (drinking blood as wine

and flesh as a biscuit). They are Satanism-lite (Fig 380).

Christianity and other connected religions have a sacrificial

altar as a throwback to the real thing in Babylon and

elsewhere. Christianity’s very symbol is a human sacrifice

(Fig 381). Jesus was sacrificed on the orders of ‘God’ to

‘save humanity’? Human sacrifices throughout ‘history’

have been performed to appease God or the gods and ‘save

humanity’. Now what ‘God’ could that be, I wonder??



F igure 3 7 9 : The ‘Christian’ virgin mother story is a repeat of far

older versions

all over the world including the reptilian mother and child in

Mesopotamia,

Queen Semiramis in Babylon, and Isis in Egypt. Mother Mary

appeared when the

Church of Babylon relocated to Rome and became Christianity.

F igure 3 8 0 : The Eucharist is an acceptable public version of what

happens for

real in satanic networks with their sacrificial rituals performed for

thousands of

years.



F igure 3 8 1 : The ‘crucifixion’ is a symbol of human ritual sacrifice.

Same deity, same origin Connections between

‘different’ religions are obvious. Judaism has a massive

crossover with Christianity in the shared Old Testament

while Islam includes the biblical characters Jesus, Mary and

Abraham. They all believe their God created the Universe.

True – the Demiurge and the simulation. All three religions

involve the wearing of skullcaps (used by priests in Babylon)

and claim to be the chosen people of their god. Jews say

they are the chosen people above all others; Christianity

claims that you can only get to heaven by believing in Jesus

as your saviour; and Islam claims to be the only religion that

will secure you a spot in Allah’s paradise. Once you have a

belief in God-given superiority you can mentally

dehumanise non-believers and justify any scale of horror

against them. This is what has happened and still does.

Witness the mentally-deranged Islamic State or ISIS and

what happens in Israel and the illegally-occupied Palestinian

lands of Gaza and the West Bank. Judaism and Islam both

demand the same ritually-sacrificed kosha and halal meat

and neither, along with some Christian sects, eat pork. Their

God says that pigs are unclean although the real origin are

the beliefs of the ancient Middle East from where all three

originated. You want people to do something? Easy – tell

them God demands it.

The God Program subdivides in the way of fractal patterns

which are embedded in the energetic construct of the

simulation. Research that I mentioned earlier revealed how

everything, whether ‘physical’ or psychological, follows

repeating as above, so below fractal physics and they are

encoded in religion. Fractals are holographic in the sense

that larger patterns subdivide into smaller exact copies

(how the prime Demiurge distortion subdivided into Archon

‘copies’). Consider this pattern with religion. One religion is

created which then subdivides into copies of itself which

operate with the same structure. Christianity began in Rome

and then subdivided into Catholic and Protestant which

themselves subdivided into other factions. The same

happened with the Islamic subdivision into Shiite and Sunni

and there are multiple versions of Judaism, Hinduism, etc.

This was inevitable with Hinduism when you have tens of

thousands of deities to choose from. Subdivisions mean that

original religions can be set at war with each other and

within each other to divide, rule, perceptually conquer and

hijack focus. In the end they are all subdivisions of the

Demiurge distortion and control system (Fig 382). Observe

society in general and you will see the same fractal

subdivisions at work and in conflict everywhere. I have long

referred to these as ‘opposames’ when two forces,

organisations or beliefs are in conflict and opposition while

being the same as each other. Communism v fascism is an

obvious opposame. Religions have been such a (literal)



‘godsend’ to human perceptual control and if they didn’t

exist the Demiurgic distortion would have had to invent

them. Er, which it did. Here are some killer questions with

regard to religion that lift the veil on their true reason for

being: Have major religions (and most smaller ones) served

human

freedom

or

human

control?



Have

they

overwhelmingly been a source of low-frequency energy or

high-frequency? Have they opened minds or closed them?

These are still more questions that answer themselves (Fig

383).

F igure 3 8 2 : Different religions – same deity.

F igure 3 8 3 : At least I can’t be accused of religious bias. I will be,

though.

Religions come in many guises far removed from

conventional priests and churches. This is one definition: ‘A

pursuit or interest followed with great devotion.’ A devotion

to sport, shopping – anything – is a form of religion. The

deity becomes the football star and the must-have brand

and the church becomes the stadium and the mall.

Mainstream science is a religion and its Bible is song-sheet

orthodoxy. High priests of scientism like Oxford professor

Richard Dawkins exhibit perceptions and behaviour that can

be found with any priest and religion and it’s important to

recognise the God Program when it’s not standing in a pulpit

and wearing a frock. That version is easy to spot but the

hidden ones are less so. Soccer worship, shopping worship,

celebrity worship, money worship, career worship is still

worship – ‘the feeling or expression of reverence and

adoration for a deity’. Even the simulation can’t yet

suppress and impose all perception to order if outside-the-

program consciousness is involved, and the Archontic mind-

game replaces one box or religion with another once the

first is rejected. If people continue to follow the

psychological tram lines through the perception-hijack of

conventional religion then that is ideal; but there have to be

other boxes lying in wait that have a better disguise. The El-

ite don’t care what you believe so long as the belief doesn’t

stray far – preferably not at all – from the perception range

of the five senses and you believe what you believe rigidly

at the exclusion of other possibility. The Program is after all

the hijacking of attention. To free ourselves from religion in

all its forms and to recognise those that ensnare us we

might ask this question: ‘What dictates and controls my

focus at the exclusion of other possibilities and information?’

Whatever that may be is your personal prison of the mind

focusing your attention on the dot so you don’t see the

picture. This is not to say that focusing on something is

wrong – of course not. But when the focus is at the expense

of peripheral vision The Program has you.

Pennies (real ones) are dropping Perceptual

control enslaves the population on its journey from

maternity to eternity. Most never see what is being done to

them or if they do later in life they don’t want to face the

fact they have been had. They attack the messenger or just

stay in denial and I understand that. Contemplating a

lifetime of being hoaxed is hardly a place where people

want to be, but, hey, better to know eventually than not at

all. It’s just an experience within infinite forever. The great

news is that so many more worldwide are expanding their

awareness and regaining the peripheral perspective

essential to seeing through the bullshit. It may not seem so

when you watch the TV news, but the waters are breaking

and will go on doing so. The Truth Vibrations are playing a

major role in this and I have been observing in recent years,

especially as I have travelled worldwide since the summer

of 2016, that dawn is breaking in the perceptions of growing

numbers of people. I have been greatly encouraged by how

many young people are seeing through the illusion. No, it’s

nothing like a majority yet, but they are increasing despite

being the most fiercely psychologically-targeted generations

in known ‘history’. Today’s young are planned to be the

adults when the enslavement reaches the technological

conclusion that I will be exposing. The System is urgently

trying to hijack their minds so the dystopia can be installed

with minimum challenge, but many are not falling for the

perceptual onslaught. I am also hearing increasing numbers

of older people asking: ‘What’s it all about?’ I say older, but

this reevaluation is happening earlier and earlier in people’s

lives. They realise that chasing the carrot does not lead to

happiness and joy. Are we really here only to work, work,

work in pursuit of either survival or the accumulation of

more and more ‘things’ that we can be persuaded to desire?

Are we really? Even many that reach their goal see that

actually nothing has really changed. They might have the

title they always wanted – CEO or something – and they

might have a bank account that others would die for; but

where’s the joy? Where’s the satisfaction and emotional

harmony? Where’s the peace? They chased the dream, even

achieved it, and they don’t feel any different. All that

schoolwork, homework, degree study, long hours at the

office, sales meetings, pressure to sell and perform – as life

in the sense of living passed them by. Then for some there

was all that religious adherence and submission. Was it

really worth it? What was it all about? It was a hoax all

along, a psychological railway track to keep you in the thrall

of The System so you wouldn’t wake up, suss it and escape.

Human life is not a panorama, but a tunnel with a vision to



match (Fig 384).

The point is that none of this has to be. Change your mind

and you change your life. Your mind is your life. It has been

stolen from you and with it your life, but you have the power

to take them back. Go for it.

F igure 3 8 4 : Programmed human myopia.





‘Great minds think alike because a greater Mind is thinking

through them’ – Criss J ami Core perception programming

is imposed in childhood and teenage years by parents,

‘education’, religion and peer pressure, and constantly

topped up and confirmed by endless other sources for the

rest of your life. The fact that ever-increasing numbers are

now seeing through the veil of deceit is testament to the

power of consciousness over even the most incessant

programming.



F igure 3 8 5 : Propaganda arm of The System.

Crucial to both casting the spell and holding the spell is

the global media which daily confirms the perceptions of

Postage Stamp reality (Fig 385). The term ‘media’ comes

from ‘medium’ which means an ‘intervening substance’ and

‘intervening agency’ – hence the term psychic ‘medium’.

How appropriate that is with the media intervening at that

crucial point between what is happening in the world and

what the public are told is happening. To create and

maintain a perception deception requires by definition

control of information. Perceptions are formed from

information received. This can be anything from personal

experience to the 10 o’clock news but clearly most people

have far more 10 o’clock news than personal experience

when it comes to forming their view of life and world events.

The scale of corporate media ownership (the ownership of

information) is fantastic. A handful of giant corporations own

the American media and those corporations are themselves

owned by a handful of billionaires. In turn, the billionaires

are owned by the Web and the Web is owned by the Spider.

The same is happening across the world. There may seem

to be countless media outlets in the United States, for

example, but they are overwhelmingly owned by just six

corporations – News Corp, Viacom, Time Warner, Disney,

CBS Corporation and NBC Universal. Go deep enough in the

Web and all six will be controlled by the same hidden

network. A tiny number of Web-connected people own the

global media, ‘entertainment’ industry – including

Hollywood, and the Internet. You see different television and

radio channels, newspapers and magazines on every

subject you can imagine and there seems to be endless

choice from apparently independent sources; but research

into how few ultimately own them all and you will be

shocked. I have exposed this at some length in Human Race

Get Off Your Knees and The Perception Deception and in

Britain you might put ‘list of Trinity Mirror titles’ into a

search engine to see what that group alone owns all over

the country. Media owners are often not only media owners

either and this creates enormous conflicts of interest.

Billionaire Jeff Bezos owns both Amazon and The

Washington Post and he negotiated a $600 million deal for

Amazon with the CIA while The Washington Post reports

stories about the CIA (Fig 386). How can that be right?

Where are the demarcation lines between media and state

and most importantly the Deep State? There are none any

longer if there ever were, except in theory.



F igure 3 8 6 : Conflicts of interest are irrelevant the global El-lite.

The Daily CIA The Washington Post and other major

mainstream newspapers have a long history of intimate

connection to the Deep State intelligence networks that

operate outside the political system of ballot boxes and

transient ‘leaders’. This has been exposed many times by

insider journalists including Watergate reporter Karl

Bernstein who worked for The Washington Post. He said the

1976 US Senate Select Committee investigation into

‘Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence

Activities’, headed by Idaho Senator Frank Church, covered

up a lot of the CIA’s control of the media; but even so the

Church Committee still acknowledged that about 50 ‘agency



assets’ were individual American journalists or employees of

American media organisations and that ‘more than a dozen

United States news organizations and commercial

publishing houses formerly provided cover for CIA agents

abroad’. Forget the ‘formerly’. The Church report said of CIA

manipulation of foreign media: ‘The CIA currently maintains

a network of several hundred foreign individuals around the

world who ... provide the CIA with direct access to a large

number of newspapers and periodicals, scores of press

services and news agencies, radio and television stations,

commercial book publishers, and other foreign media

outlets.’ The network is far more extensive today than it was

in 1976 and you can observe the most obvious coordination

between North American and European media in the way

they handle, spin and repeat the required narrative in

stories of importance to the CIA and the Web (Fig 387).

Currently central to that is ‘Russia is evil’. Leading German

journalist Udo Ulfkotte, former assistant editor for major

German newspaper, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung,

publicly exposed control of the media by intelligence

agencies before he died of a heart attack in January 2017 at

the age of 56. Ulfkotte said that he was forced to publish

articles under his own name that were handed to him by

intelligence agencies and refusal to do so would have cost

him his job. In the end he became so sick of this that he

went public amid the hysterical propaganda to demonise

Russia and trigger a war with the West. He said:

F igure 3 8 7 : Intelligence agencies have tremendous influence over

what you

see and hear – or don’t.

I’ve been a journalist for about 25 years, and I was

educated to lie, to betray, and not to tell the truth to the

public. But seeing right now within the last months how

the German and American media tries to bring war to the

people in Europe, to bring war to Russia – this is a point of

no return and I’m going to stand up and say it is not right

what I have done in the past, to manipulate people, to

make propaganda against Russia, and it is not right what

my colleagues do and have done in the past because they

are bribed to betray the people, not only in Germany, all

over Europe.

Ulfkotte said media control by intelligence agencies is

widespread and this is confirmed by other whistleblowers in

Europe and the United States (Fig 388). He said many

American and European journalists were what the CIA call

‘non-official cover’. This means that you write what the

agencies want and spy on their behalf, but if you are ever

caught the connection is denied by the agency involved.

When a target government arrests foreign journalists there

is an outcry from the United States and others about the

abuse of journalistic freedom, but on at least some

occasions those ‘journalists’ really are spies. That’s the bit

they don’t tell you. Ulfkotte revealed that he was bribed by

billionaires and American agencies not to report the truth

and instead produce articles that were pro-American, pro-

Europe, but never pro-Russian. The constant outpouring of

anti-Russian, anti-Putin propaganda on both sides of the

Atlantic (and in countries like US/UK-controlled Australia and

New Zealand) is being coordinated to a single end. In my

experience the corporate-owned media in ‘little’ New

Zealand is right up there with the worst and most

mendacious. I have seen the worldwide reach of media

idiocy including a television presenter in New Zealand, two

from Channel 9 in Australia and a radio host in Iceland all

from the same conveyor belt and all thinking they are

different and informed. You can hardly get more ‘distance’

on Earth than between New Zealand and Iceland, but in

both I met the same mind (program) such is the global

spectrum of journalistic ignorance, arrogance and

immaturity. Ulfkotte said the CIA was especially strong in its

control of British and Israeli journalists and I have been

aware for a long time of the connections between British

intelligence and the British media. Watch for print journalists

who are regularly wheeled out on television programmes to

spin their propaganda and trash stories about El-ite

paedophilia and Satanism or any suggestion of conspiracies.

One in the UK comes to mind immediately who was named

to me by a former intelligence operative as an asset of MI5.

CNN stalwart Anderson Cooper from the El-lite Vanderbilt

bloodline was an intern for the CIA before turning to what he

calls journalism. Zionist-controlled and incredibly arrogant

CNN and the publicly-funded US National Public Radio (NPR)

have admitted that eight members of the US Army 4th

Psychological Operations (PSYOPS) Group worked in their

news divisions and other areas during the Kosovo war in the

late 1990s when the CIA was covertly directing the war

against Serbia. This is what the mainstream media really is –

psychological warfare on the public. Udo Ulfkotte published

his revelations in a book entitled, Journalists for Hire: How

the CIA Buys the News. He said that the CIA ‘had a hand’ on

every journalist of significance in Europe (often coordinated

through ‘transatlantic organisations’) to control the

narrative that Europeans are given about world events and

a host of other subjects (Fig 389). Germany and European

countries in general were little more than colonies of the

United States, he said. At the level that Ulfkotte worked this

would have appeared to be the case. There is a twist to add,

however. I said earlier that the United States is actually

controlled from Europe and what you have is a chain of

command to hide the real centre of power. European

governments are largely controlled from the United States

and the United States is controlled from the inner circle of

the secret society web that is located in Europe. The same

illusion is played with intelligence agencies. Call them the

CIA/NSA, British intelligence (MI5/MI6), Israeli intelligence

(Mossad) or whatever. It doesn’t matter. They appear to be

different and independent even to most of their operatives,

but if you go deep enough they are all assets of the same

central command – the same Web – working to the same

global Archontic agenda. Spy agencies in the US, Canada,

UK, Australia and New Zealand operate under the ‘five eyes’

arrangement of information exchange but the connections

between global agencies go much further. German

intelligence agency BND was exposed in 2015 for helping

the US National Security Agency (NSA) to spy on supposedly

‘friendly’ governments in Poland, Austria, Denmark and

Croatia and on embassies in Germany representing France,

Great Britain, Sweden, Portugal, Greece, Spain, Italy,

Austria, Switzerland and the Vatican. Even the phone of

German Chancellor Angela Merkel was tapped in this NSA

global surveillance operation which also targeted US

diplomatic missions at the EU and UN along with the US

Treasury Department and Department of the Interior (and it

didn’t end there). Intelligence agencies are spying on their

own governments which are supposed to control them

because their allegiance is not to governments, but to the

Web that really controls them. Politicians come and go while

agencies of the Web are always there pursuing the Web’s

ongoing agenda. This is the network, together with the

inner-circle of the military, that operates the DUMBS or

Deep Underground Military Bases which presidents are

allowed to know next to nothing about. When Ulfkotte says



the CIA has control of Israeli journalists, for instance, it’s

really Mossad on behalf of the Web that also includes the

CIA. They use each other to spy on their own countries to

have ‘plausible deniability’ if hacks and surveillance are

uncovered. ‘It’s the Russians’ is another regular response.

The same technique was exposed by a British police

whistleblower who revealed in a letter to a politician that



the London Metropolitan Police were using Indian police to

hack the emails of hundreds of political activists and

journalists. The following is the Archontic Reptilian bloodline

blueprint for control of the media and, as a result, of what

most people think:

F igure 3 8 8 : Udo Ulfkotte bravely spoke out about control of the

media before

he died in 2017.

F igure 3 8 9 : People need to check and questions everything and not

just take it

on face value. The face usually has no value.

• Create or buy out major news agencies and TV channels

• Only publish stories that promote your agenda

• Maintain debate within a strictly limited range of views

and subjects

• Focus on traumatic events to keep the people

traumatised and in fear

• Label anyone who exposes your system and

manipulation as a ‘conspiracy theorist’

Provable fact is only a theory The term

‘conspiracy theorist’ is the one-stop shop to discredit those

lifting the veil even though the definition of conspiracy is

only ‘the act of conspiring together’. On that basis there are

conspiracies everywhere. ‘Conspiracy theorist’ is also a

label confined only to those questioning The System. If you

are serving The System by collectively claiming a Russian

plot to influence US and European elections based on no

hard evidence whatsoever while quoting anonymous

‘sources’ then a conspiracy theory becomes ‘journalism’.

Widespread deployment of ‘conspiracy theory’ and

‘conspiracy theorist’ as terms of derision began in the 1960s

once again courtesy of the CIA when they were seeking to

discredit those exposing the truth about the assassination of

President Kennedy and Malcolm X . A CIA dispatch to media

organisations in 1967 outlined ways to discredit people

asking dangerous questions and included the use of the

label ‘conspiracy theories’ (Fig 390). The dispatch was the

work of the CIA’s Clandestine Services Unit and expressed

alarm at how the official (nonsensical) story of the Kennedy

assassination was doubted by 46 percent of the population

thanks to the work of independent researchers. This

document was well timed, with Martin Luther King and JFK’s

brother Bobby Kennedy assassinated the following year and

explained away by official narratives at serious odds with

the evidence. The CIA dispatch gave the media a list of

ways to counter ‘conspiracy theories’:

• Claim it is impossible for so many people to stay silent if

it was really a conspiracy [it is perfectly possible because

of compartmentalisation, intimidation and outright

elimination]

• Use CIA assets and supporters to trash the theories and

highlight official findings [see file marked ‘tell them

claptrap’]

• Ignore conspiracy information unless it is so widely

circulating that a response becomes necessary [this is

why there is such a panic now and the use of the label

‘fake news’]

• Claim that conspiracy theories reveal ‘no significant new

evidence’ [when they actually take the official story apart]

• Discredit eyewitnesses [unless they support the official

account, see also 9/11, 7/7 and other official versions of

terrorist attacks]

• Condemn conspiracy researchers for irresponsible

speculation [telling the truth]

• Claim they are infatuated, politically motivated or only

doing it to make money [target the messenger if you can’t

discredit the message]



F igure 3 9 0 : The CIA despatch to media organisations in 1967 that

spawned the

widespread use of ‘conspiracy theory’ and ‘conspiracy theorists’

which continues

today in an ongoing attempt to discredit any alternative to official

narratives.

Those that parrot these terms have no idea where they came from.

Fifty years later today’s mainstream media is still using

the CIA-inspired labels ‘conspiracy theory’ and ‘conspiracy

theorists’ in an attempt to discredit those like me who are

challenging official fairy tales which they are too ignorant or

unmotivated to do (Fig 391). Virtually none of the

‘journalists’ who say ‘conspiracy theory’ by reflex action

have any idea who introduced the term to the media and

why. Day after day they do the bidding of the CIA with

regard to 9/11 and countless other events and situations in

which the authorities have lied to the population. Instead of

investigating and exposing those lies themselves, which is

supposed to be their job, they seek to undermine others

who are doing what they should be doing (Fig 392). There

are ‘journalist’ assets of the intelligence networks and

media

owners

knowingly

using

their

sources

of

communication to push the Hidden Hand perception control

agenda, but the great majority of mainstream journalists are

simply uniformed about the world they are reporting. They

have all been through the perception program as far as

college and university and every day they are interacting

with fellow journalists, politicians, scientists and doctors who

have downloaded the same perceptual illusions. They get

most of their information from other journalists by reading

newspapers

and

watching

24-hour

rolling

news

programmes. When anyone comes along to challenge that

mutual sense of the ‘normal’ and ‘possible’ they are

dismissed in an instant as crazy, dangerous or in some way

on the make. I have shaken my head so many times in

mainstream interviews, print, radio and television, at the

lack of knowledge journalists and presenters have had on

subjects they think they know all about. Politicians are the

same. They only ‘know’ what they have been told to know,

that’s all, and the totality of that amounts to jack shit

compared with what there is to know. The human disease

that I call the arrogance of ignorance is particularly virulent

in the media (and politics) and this is essential if careers are

to survive or prosper. In among the journalistic dross there

are still some outstanding reporters seeking against all the

odds and pressures to tell the truth as best they can and

they are now in the gunsights of The System to ensure that

only unquestioning acquiescence remains. Such is the

programmed ignorance of the media generally that all they

can do is to act as echo chambers repeating the official



versions of Mainstream Everything. They repeat official

accounts and agendas across the entirety of human society

from politics to finance, world events to health. DNA-

mutating GMO ‘food’ is perfectly safe (genetically-modified

gives you a clue, right?). Parents that reject toxic, immune-

system-demolishing vaccines are putting children at risk.

Brain-suppressing fluoride in toothpaste and drinking water

– so what’s the problem? Experts from Mainstream

Everything have said it is safe so it must be ... repeat,

repeat, repeat. No mention of a list of studies showing that

fluoride (a) damages teeth with fluorosis and (b) suppresses

intelligence. Doctors and the pharmaceutical cartel (Big



Pharma) are the journalist’s fountain of knowledge about

health and the fact that mainstream medicine is a global

killing machine passes them by while never touching the

sides.

F igure 3 9 1 : The real meaning of ‘conspiracy theorist’.

F igure 3 9 2 : ‘News’ broadcasts the world over.

If you are a genuine journalist who won’t comply with the

official narrative you’re out the door and when you have a

family and a mortgage to pay this is a mind-focusing

incentive not to step out of line. I read a report about Misha

Michaels, a proper science journalist at the WGBH media

operation in Boston. She was fired and told she was ‘not a

good fit’ after supporting a bill allowing parents not to

vaccinate their children and questioning the human-caused

global warming hoax of which more later. Censoring genuine

journalists is done as a matter of course. Censorship and

propaganda is further encouraged by advertising in terms of

who gets it, who doesn’t, and on what editorial criteria this

is handed out or denied. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr, a campaigner

against the negative impact of vaccines, said the media had

been co-opted by the pharmaceutical industry: ‘A network

news broadcast these days ... is just a vehicle for selling

pharmaceutical products.’ Kennedy said that he was told by

one of Americans biggest TV networks that any presenter

who interviewed him about thimerosal, the toxic mercury-

based vaccine ingredient, would be fired. The devastating

potential effect of mercury on especially children’s health is

irrelevant to these programmed perceptual inversions.

Money and career are all that matters. This happens across

the spectrum of subjects as whistleblower reporters have

testified. Access to the mainstream public is denied to those

questioning official orthodoxy or weak guests are invited to

put a case while stronger and more informed ones are

ignored. Add to this the often breathtaking bias and

ignorance of the writer or presenter and you have a fully-

fledged System protection racket.

I watched a BBC ‘discussion’ about alleged human-caused

climate change for which the BBC is a global leader in

perception manipulation. Rarely is anyone exposing the

climate-change hoax allowed to appear and when they are

they’re treated with systematic distain by the ‘impartial’

BBC. The presenter on this occasion, a bloke called Nicky

Campbell, treated with absolute dismissal and contempt a

weather expert challenging the climate hoax while the co-

leader of the Green Party Jonathan Bartley complained that

the BBC had allowed a dissenting voice to appear. Bartley

and Campbell are so mesmerised by their own omnipotence

they can’t see the outrageous extremism which says that

only one view – their view – is to be taken seriously or given

a platform. And ‘their’ view came from The System –

underscored by the knowledge that if you explore another

opinion too fairly you will be looking for new employment

very soon. Nicky Campbell is the former BBC pop music disc

jockey turned excuse-for-a-journalist who said of Syria’s

President Assad while presenting a ‘news’ programme: ‘We

need to get rid of him, he’s a war criminal.’ Such outrageous

statements by a ‘news’ presenter in my day at the BBC

would have led to dismissal or demotion. Now it is rewarded

with promotion or accolade. Campbell was referring to an

alleged chemical weapons attack blamed on Assad forces in

Syria based on absolutely no evidence and only the rantings

of US, UK, Israeli and European System-server politicians

who were desperate to remove Assad after he, thanks to

Russia, had resisted all Western attempts to bring him

down. The ‘attack’ came at a time when Assad with Russian

support was winning back the country. Why would he attack

his own people with chemical weapons when he had nothing

to gain and everything to lose by doing that? Previous

claims of ‘gas attacks’ by Assad turned out to be the work of

Western-backed terrorists designed to demonise him to

justify outright invasion by the West instead of just the

proxy invasion by Western-backed, armed and trained

‘rebels’ (terrorists). But all this would have been lost on

Campbell who takes his daily perceptual cue from the

official line on everything. No wonder he is so well thought

of by the BBC (and himself). His arrogant ignorance is so

typical of his breed and prevails throughout the mainstream

media and much of the ‘alternative’ (Fig 393). Another BBC

report related to a terrorist attack talked of protecting ‘our

values’. Proper impartial journalism should never refer to

‘our’ anything and only present the neutral facts. The BBC in

general is an absolute disgrace to truth and journalism and

a pathetic and compliant PR unit for Mainstream Everything.

A proper presenter’s job is to fairly and equally question

different opinions and let the viewer decide what to make of

them. Instead we have these most basic of journalistic

standards usurped by the cult of the know-it-all-know-fuck-

all commentator host, and my god most are so uninformed

(a great career move) it takes your breath away. Campbell is

a personification and his blueprint is written into the very

fabric of what passes for ‘journalism’ today. For this and all



the other reasons the bulk of the mainstream media is little

more than The Spider’s propaganda network.

F igure 3 9 3 : Holding your breath is not advised.

All together now Diversity in the mainstream media is

a sleight of hand and eye. News agencies owned by

corporate giants provide ‘news’ globally and nationally for

untold numbers of newspapers, radio stations and television

newsrooms. One reporter’s version of something is then

read out or published across the world. There are video

compilations on YouTube with one TV ‘news’ show after the

other presenting the same story word for word. It would be

hysterical if it were not so tragic for human awareness. I

worked as a journalist in newspapers, radio and television

for 20 years and with honourable exceptions that arena is

hardly the bastion of brightest. Nor does it need to be in the

way it is currently structured. You want to be on TV? Read

the words written for you in the camera lens as if you are

not reading them; try to look as if you know what you’re

talking about even if you don’t; and ask a few questions

within the parameters of your particular owner/editorial

acceptability. Then say goodnight – back tomorrow. That’s it

really, most of the time. Names like BBC, ITN, CNN, MSNBC

and Fox News present the illusion of choice when they are

basically all the same. Fox News may have a bias to the

Republican Party and MSNBC to the Democrats, but that’s

only the surface veneer to kid people they have media

diversity. Whenever it comes to anything that could truly

expose The System and the El-lite for what they really are

the mainstream media moves as one unit. Hideous Fox

News front man Bill O’Reilly (fired in 2017 over personal

matters) and full-of-herself MSNBC host Rachel Maddow had

their right-left spats with each other and appear to be

political polarities, but they are illusory Postage Stamp

polarities (Fig 394). ‘Satirical’ news comedians like Jon

Stewart, Bill Maher, Stephen Colbert and John Oliver may

seem to be laughing at The System and its foot soldiers. Yet

question if 9/11 was a conspiracy (it was), or if anything else

of fundamental importance to the El-lite is not what it

seems, and they are all united in their dismissal, ridicule

and condemnation. They are System-servers wearing

different masks, playing different roles, and the same with

most of their profession. They know that if they don’t play

the game they’ll soon be yesterday’s news themselves. You

can attack bankers but don’t you dare expose how they are

lending money that doesn’t exist and charging interest on it.

You can make fun of the president, but don’t you dare

expose that he’s a puppet of the force that holds the strings

of all presidents. You can do what you like so long as it’s

what we like. ‘Progressive icon comedian’ (fraud and

manchild) John Oliver mocked the Vault 7 WikiLeaks

revelations about CIA surveillance and assassination

operations which involve hacking technology and car



computer systems. Oliver’s response was sickening to

behold, but typical of his pseudo-rebel breed which claims

to be making fun of The System while licking its arse. Russia

Today, or RT, the state-funded channel broadcasting in

many countries, has improved the quality of television news

journalism both by asking some of the questions the

Western mainstream refuses to do and by giving a platform

to other voices normally excluded. Even then it is only up to

a point. RT is of course biased in favour of Russia and

President Putin and this is to be expected given its

paymasters. The output needs to be filtered with that

knowledge while being welcomed all the same. I am well

past their ‘up to a point’ it seems and at the time of writing I

have never been invited on any RT programme even with 30

years of research into all the subjects they cover. Maybe I

am not safe enough. I do hope so. Mainstream media says

question nothing; RT says question more; I say question

everything. That’s the difference.

F igure 3 9 4 : The unlamented Bill O’Reilly and the lamentable

Rachael Maddow.

Two sides of the same postage stamp claiming to be different.

Genuine alternative and mainstream-lite

When I started out in my current direction in 1990 there was

no alternative media such as that we have today. Only a few

of us largely working alone were exposing the Hidden Hand

behind world affairs, and in the United States the field was

dominated by Christian believers. Significant parts of it still

are. I would speak to mostly tiny audiences in America with

many of them very suspicious of this English guy who was

exposing the conspiracy but didn’t talk about Jesus. I spoke

to eight people near Chicago, I remember, and to four or

five in a front room in New England. This is what you had to

do in those days with no Internet worth the name and little

interest in the information. Many times I thought ‘what’s the

point’ but something drove me on, an intuitive ‘knowing’

that eventually I would get somewhere. Since then a

massive worldwide Internet-based industry has emerged

called the ‘alternative media’ or ‘independent media’

inspired by the pioneers and fuelled by gathering doubts

about world-changing events such as 9/11 and the liefest

that was the invasion of Iraq in 2003. These websites and

Internet radio/TV shows have reported global events from a

very different perspective to the mainstream. They have

highlighted connections between people, organisations and

happenings where the mainstream reported them only in

isolation and with official spin. Without the connections

there is no picture and only unfathomable ‘random’

happenings. Without context there is only the bewildering

onslaught of the daily data storm. The alternative media has

primarily (though far from totally) stayed within the

parameters of five-sense perception while reporting events

from another more expansive angle. This five-sense

perspective has led to me being attacked, dismissed and

ridiculed by great swathes of the ‘alternative’ media as

much as I have by the mainstream. What is termed

‘alternative’ is an enormous spectrum of perception from

those that are barely divisible from the mainstream to those

like me who question everything we have ever been told to

believe right down to reality itself. Most of the alternative

media is closer to the barely-divisible polarity and hence my

communal dismissal by many alternative sources.

Davidicke.com and Brietbart.com, the Trump-supporting

‘Alt-right’ website that provided his alleged (and former)

chief advisor, Steve Bannon, would both be considered

‘alternative media’, but they are in parallel universes.

Significant parts of the alternative media supported

Donald Trump because five-sense focus sets you in pursuit

of five-sense answers to problems that you seek to solve

when five-sense reality is all you can see. I am saying that

to change reality we need to change perception and expand

consciousness beyond The Program. Current perceptions are

manifesting current reality by folding into existence from

the Cosmic Internet (quantum field) the possibilities and

probabilities instigated by those perceptions. If that doesn’t

change then current reality can’t change. Throughout

‘history’ humanity has been trying to change external

events with the same state of consciousness that created

them and that simply cannot happen. Violent revolutions to

overthrow oppressive governments lead to the violent

revolutionaries becoming the next oppressive government.

We have seen this over and over because the level of

consciousness is the same. Republican replacing Democrat

replacing Republican replacing Democrat is another

example. Political parties are Postage Stamp parties. They

call themselves different names and have their own

rhetorical hymn sheet, but the outcome is always

predictable because their consciousness believes in the

same System and reality. Differences are only in detail, not

substance. Five-sense-only focus made parts of the

alternative media vulnerable to the illusion of Donald Trump

when he pledged to take on the Establishment (while being

part of it). He told them what they wanted to hear about

‘draining the swamp’ and other points on the alternative

wish-list and they bought it. Swamps are not drained by

those who have spent their lives swimming in them or by

those who announce after taking office that records of who

visits the White House will no longer be disclosed. The

power of Trump to seize the psyche of the five-sense-only

‘alternative’ can be witnessed in websites once exposing

The System (or at least parts of it) becoming little more

than temples of Trumpian hero-worship. They would once

have jumped on presidents who handed the US treasury and

economic direction to Goldman Sachs operatives, but when

their hero/deity Trump did that there was hardly a whimper

(Fig 395). This has been good in a way in that it has

highlighted the difference between the genuinely alternative

and the illusory alternative. This reevaluation was long

overdue. Trump’s perceptual hijack has been made possible

by two main psychological traits. The first is the power of

being told what you want to hear. Tell people what they

don’t want to hear and there is reflex-action resistance for

the obvious reason that they don’t want it to be true. Tell

them what they do want to hear and they will be desperate

to believe it because they do want it to be true. Politicians of

every persuasion spend election campaigns telling their

potential constituency of support what it wants to hear.

Once secured in power they then do what they were always

going to do and much of that is at odds with what they

promised to do. This is an ever-recurring cycle all over the

world and Trump is just the same. Promises that suit the

Archontic agenda (those that create chaos and division) are

instigated but everything else is forgotten including, in

Trump’s case, draining the swamp. The role of the truly

alternative media is not in my view to promote a particular

candidate in a system rigged to its core. It is to expose how

it is rigged and by whom. It is to ask how a political system

can be trusted that offers voters in a country of 326 million

people a ‘choice’ between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

The Trump-supporting ‘alternative media’ might ask

themselves in a quiet moment how come the system they

have claimed to be so rigged from the shadows allowed

their hero pledging to delete that system to come through



to win against all the odds? Bernie Sanders was the real

choice of Democrat supporters to run for president, but

leaked emails revealed how the party hierarchy manipulated

events to allow Clinton to win. The Republican hierarchy that

was supposed to be so against Trump could not have done

the same? With much to be revealed about Trump no

apparently anti-Trump news outlet could produce something

to ensure he couldn’t win? Please. These are questions and

observations that are firewalled from the minds of those

desperate for their hero to be what they want him to be.

F igure 3 9 5 : Parts of the alternative media are still supporting Trump

even after

he handed the US economy to the very Goldman Sachs that they had

long

exposed as a financial pillar of the El-lite.

‘Fake news!’, says fake news Trump made one of

his foundation platforms the lies and manipulation of news

by the mainstream media which he refers to as the ‘enemy

of the people’. This was another major reason why the five-

sense-only alternative became his cheerleader. Who could

disagree with the claim that the mainstream media lies and

misrepresents events and people when it has clearly done

so decade after decade? There is another angle to this,

however, which I will be coming to shortly. The Trump anti-

system fantasy was completely manufactured with the

Zionist network in the US funding and supporting him as we

will see, and Zionist-controlled CNN, The New York Times

and The Washington Post attacking him and giving the

impression that he was anti-Establishment. I have

emphasised over the years to be on guard when a subject or

theme suddenly appears out of nowhere and is immediately

everywhere as if someone has pressed a button. These

situations are almost always the Hidden Hand at work and

so it was with the sudden emergence and global circulation

of the term ‘fake news’. Even the Pope – the Pope –

condemned the circulation of fake information before

heading for his next sermon to express the literal truth that

‘Jesus’ was born to a virgin mother, turned water into wine,

fed thousands with a few loaves and fishes, walked on

water, died on the cross, came back to life and disappeared

into the sky promising to return one day on a cloud. The

Pope would never see the contradiction. Ironically, this ‘fake

news’ onslaught was directed at the alternative media in the

wake of the exposure by WikiLeaks of coordinated collusion

between the Hillary Clinton campaign and corporate ‘news’

operations like CNN (Fig 396). Major ‘news’ outlets caught

planting stories and promoting a particular political

candidate then had the nerve after Trump’s election to lead

the charge against the alternative media under the

collective banner of ‘fake news’. This was so immediate and

widespread both sides of the Atlantic that the coordination

was laughably obvious (Fig 397). Ann M. Ravel, former head

of the Federal Election Commission (FEC), told an event

called ‘Future of Democracy’ at the University of California,

Berkeley that political speech must be controlled on social

media and ‘fake news’ regulated. Her true motivation is

revealed in her efforts at the FEC to regulate alternative

websites like the Drudge Report before the ‘fake news’ hoax

was even launched. When people made clear their

opposition to such state censorship she blamed the reaction

on ‘misogyny’. Political correctness is now a ubiquitous

weapon of choice for many called out for their Orwellian

tendencies. ‘You are only saying that because of my sex,

colour or sexual preference.’ No, it’s because you are talking

bollocks. English writer Samuel Johnson (1709-1784) said

that patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel. Now they

have another place to shelter – political correctness. The

claim was that alternative sites (dubbed the Alt-right earlier

in the campaign) had been responsible for Trump’s victory

by spreading false information that was then widely shared

on social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter.

Trump won because of ‘fake news’ and not because Hillary

Clinton and her ex-president husband are among the most

corrupt politicians in American history. This had nothing to

do with it. ‘Fake news’ and ‘the Russians’ were the villains.

Added to this mix for extra oomph was the claim without

any evidence whatsoever that the Trump-supporting

alternative media was serving the interests of President

Putin and Russia in deciding the outcome of the election.

The ‘fake news’ hoax is being exploited in Europe with

claims that elections in EU countries are influenced by

information that isn’t true, but then they always have been

through political party manifestos. Some idiots even linked

‘fake news’ to the Brexit referendum result in Britain. They

don’t want to face the fact that a UK majority voted to leave

the EU against the wishes of almost the entirety of the Left-

Right political class because more and more people are

awakening to the realities of bureaucratic and one-party

establishments masquerading as democracy and freedom.

Trump was also elected because he was perceived to be

against the American political class even though he wasn’t.

The role played in this fast-emerging realisation by the





alternative media has been so crucial in circulating

information exposing the game, and so it became the target

of the coordinated fake news campaign (Fig 398). Demonise

the alternative media as ‘fake news’ and you can justify

censoring information that you don’t want people to hear.

Facebook and its vacuous manchild T-shirt frontman Mark

Zuckerberg were on the case immediately which is no



surprise at all given that Facebook is a major global arm of

The Spider and its Web.

F igure 3 9 6 : A disgrace to journalism.

F igure 3 9 7 : Someone pressed the button on the ‘fake news’

narrative and

suddenly it was everywhere.

F igure 3 9 8 : The alternative media was getting far too influential.

Something

had to be done.

I referred there to the fake news ‘hoax’ and that needs to

be put into context. I am not saying for a moment that

elements of what calls itself the alternative media do not

make up stories. They do. Take the sites Yournewswire.com

and Newspunch.com operated out of California by Sean Adl-Tabatabai, ironically a former webmaster at Davidicke.com.

What better definition of fake news can there be than to

have alleged ‘news’ sites that make up stories which didn’t

happen, quoting only nonsense like ‘sources say’, and do so

under the name of a ‘journalist’ called ‘Baxter Dmitry’ who

doesn’t exist? Alongside ‘his’ name an image has been

posted, not of the nonexistent ‘Dmitry’, but of a past

associate of ‘editor-in-chief’ Adl-Tabatabai with no

connection to Yournewswire or Newspunch.com. The

invented ‘Dmitry’ has ‘his’ own Facebook page with a fake

profile

and

also

email

addresses

–

baxter@ yournewswire.com and baxter@ newspunch.com.

The site claims that he has ‘travelled in over 80 countries

and won arguments in every single one’ and has been

‘speaking truth to power since he learned to talk’. ‘Dmitry’

wrote emails to me in the childlike belief by the real writer

that I didn’t know his true identity. This site has posted

outrageous stories written (or rather not) by ‘Baxter Dmitry’

trying to undermine me and my work of nearly 30 years –

thus confirming how truly motivated they are in seeking to

challenge The System. To do nothing about the state of the

world is one thing, but to exploit that situation is quite

another. I exposed the Baxter Dmitry scam on

Davidicke.com and later so did the UK Sunday Times.

Yournewswire/Newspunch.com and their ‘editor-in-chief’

have continued on regardless with people still sharing their

made-up stories as if they are true. A fake story ‘written’ in

June 2017 by the nonexistent ‘Baxter Dmitry’ was headed:

‘Retired MI5 Agent Confesses on Deathbed: “I Killed Princess

Diana”’. It was classic ‘Dmitry’ nonsense lacking all the

essential details to support the headline. The story was

illustrated with a picture of ‘MI5 agent John Hopkins’ on his

deathbed which turned out to be 87-year-old Kevin Park, an

asbestosis sufferer, pictured in a story in 2010 on an

Australian news website about him having to use his mobile

phone to call for help from his hospital bed when he could

not attract the attention of nursing staff. Yournewswire

posted that image of an Australian hospital patient from

seven years before and claimed him to be an MI5 agent in a

made-up story written by someone that doesn’t exist. They

have no capacity for shame. Soon after came another ‘story’

from this disgraceful website headed ‘CIA Agent Confesses

on Deathbed: “We Blew Up WTC7 on 9/11”?’ The scale of

absolute contempt you must have for the public and the

genuine alternative media to behave like this is

extraordinary, but no doubt they make a good living from it.

The real motivation of pseudo-alternative websites – and

there are many – is ‘clickbait’. The term can be defined as

posting headlines designed only to make people click on the

story. When they do so the text in no way justifies the

headline, but by then it doesn’t matter. Every click to open

the story adds to the advertising revenue of the site as does

circulation of the page on social media by ‘awake’ people so

desperately naï ve that even after reading text that does not

justify the headline they still believe what the headline says!

It’s amazing. But, then, perhaps not so with the power of

perception programming that comes with a desire for

something to be true despite the fact that it is nonsensical

and unsupportable by any evidence. I came across a video

on YouTube by an ‘alternative’ researcher talking about the

Diana deathbed story as if it was true and this had been

viewed 435,000 times when the whole thing had been made

up simply to make money.

What is most appalling and disgusting with clickbait sites

claiming to be ‘alternative media’ is they hand ammunition

to The System to tar with the same brush the genuine

alternative media that does seek to deal in fact. They also

discredit alternative information with their so easy to

debunk made-up stories and the El-lite must absolutely love

them. It’s about time they were called out and widely

exposed by genuine researchers and all those who care

about what the real alternative media is trying to do. Some

of the most counterfeit, mendacious and untrustworthy

people I have ever met have claimed to be part of the

alternative media – and some of the best – and the same

with those who call themselves ‘spiritual’. Beware of anyone

who has to tell you how ‘spiritual’ they are. Shouldn’t it be

obvious by their actions? Fake headlines to entice people to

click on fake text are an epidemic on the Internet in general.

I saw a headline on YouTube for a video by the great

American comedian George Carlin which said during the

2016 US election campaign: ‘Why I Won’t Be Voting For

Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump – George Carlin.’ This is the

same George Carlin who died in 2008. Those responsible for

the upload who had no connection with Carlin were aware

the headline was thoroughly misleading but they knew it

would attract many more clicks (money) than one that told

the truth. The same happens when some YouTube channels

post my videos and misrepresent them just to get more

clicks by misleading headlines and claims that they are new

when they are not. They, too, call themselves ‘alternative’

when they are clickbait parasites feeding off the efforts of

others while contributing nothing. There is a chasm of

difference between being wrong when you are trying to be

right and being wrong while knowing that is the case. I

freely acknowledge that parts of what claim to be the

alternative media are guilty of circulating fake news, but I

say they are not in the least alternative. What is the

difference between websites that post made-up articles by a

fake writer claiming to expose a conspiracy or quote George

Carlin about a current event eight years after he died and

the daily bias and spin of the mainstream media worldwide

every day? Nothing. They are both knowingly misleading the

public. Nor does The System really care much about any of

this. The fake news agenda is a hoax in the sense that its

real target is the genuine alternative media for which facts

and dot-connecting are everything (Fig 399). Clickbait dross

has given the authorities and their tools like Facebook, the

T-shirt tyranny, the excuse to censor genuine content on the

basis of fake news (Fig 400). This is the same ‘moral’

Facebook, by the way, that has admitted how its uses

smartphone and computer microphones to listen to private

conversations and has engaged in widespread experiments

manipulating information in news feeds to alter the



behaviour of its users about whom it doesn’t give a shit. The

Australian newspaper has published Facebook documents

marked ‘Confidential: Internal Only’ which detail ‘unsavoury

and often predatory advertising practices which target

teenagers as young as 14 and preys on their insecurities.’

The paper reported that by monitoring user posts, media

uploads, interactions and general internet activity Facebook

can identify when people are ‘stressed’, ‘defeated’,

‘overwhelmed’, ‘anxious’ and ‘nervous’, or feeling ‘stupid’,

‘silly’, ‘useless’ and a ‘failure’. These details are then

‘shareable under a non-disclosure agreement only’ for

targeted advertising. Facebook has filed a patent that would

allow this repugnant company to monitor people’s faces via

smartphone and laptop cameras. They claim this would help

them target advertising and content by monitoring which

videos people watched and which they looked away from.

Liars – it is their version of Orwell’s Telescreens. Zionist-

controlled Facebook has allowed the sharing of death

threats, images of self-harm and animal torture with leaked

company documents revealing how moderators are told not

to delete this content because it can raise awareness of the

issues. They only have a problem with people telling the

truth, asking the ‘wrong’ questions or having opinions at

odds with the El-lite agenda of which Facebook is a part.

Twitter is going the same way. Such are the people claiming

the moral high ground over ‘fake news’ when this is only an

excuse to censor on behalf of their masters way, way above

Zuckerberg who I do not believe for a moment is the real

power behind Facebook.

F igure 3 9 9 : The real reason for the fake news hoax.





F igure 4 0 0 : The genie is out of the bottle and it must not go back.

F igure 4 0 1 : Full-blown fake news.



F igure 4 0 2 : Google is using the ‘fake news’ hoax to censor genuine

information

The System doesn’t want you to see.

Fake News ‘fact-checkers’

Algorithms and ‘fact-checkers’ are being employed to target

and flag-up stories that The System doesn’t want the public

to see including ‘conspiracy theories’ (stories that so often

turn out to be true and are not ‘theories’ at all). These are

called ‘low-quality content’ by the censors at Zionist

created-and-controlled Google while lie-machines such as

the BBC, MSNBC and CNN with the blatantly biased

Anderson Cooper and Christiane Amanpour are considered

high-quality and given search engine prominence (Fig 401

and 402). If you are engaged in a perception deception you must control the narrative and the genuine alternative

media has thrown a mighty spanner in that particular works.

‘Fake news’ is The System’s response with Google and

Facebook to the fore. Google was founded by Zionists Larry

Page and Sergey Brin with pre-launch CIA seed money,

Google-owned YouTube is run by Zionist CEO Susan Wojcicki

and Facebook is headed by Zionist Mark Zuckerberg with

Zionist chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, former vice

president of global online sales and operations at Google

and chief of staff to mega Zionist financial manipulator

Lawrence Summers when he was US Treasury Secretary.

Facebook has determined that ‘fact-checker’ organisations

will decide if a story is fake and will be flagged as ‘disputed’

with a link to an alleged explanation for why (Fig 403).

Warnings began to appear like ‘before you share this

content, you might want to know that the fact-checking

sites, Snopes.com and Associated Press disputed its

accuracy’. Flagged stories are also given less prominence

than before and fewer people will see them. To say these

fact-checker organisations which determine if a story is

disputed or ‘fake news’ are independent is hilarious. They

include ABC News and other expressions of a long-

discredited mainstream media that a Harvard University

study found is not trusted by 65 percent of the public to tell

them the truth. The International Fact-Checking Network

(IFCN), which produced a code of five principles for news

websites, is an offshoot of the Poynter Institute for Media

Studies. Poynter is funded by a list of Spider fronts and

frontmen including the George Soros Open Society

Foundations (of which much more to come), Bill and Melinda

Gates Foundation, Google and others. Collectively –

billionairescareaboutfacts.com. Sure they do. Billionaire Soros and billionaire Gates seem to turn up everywhere in

support or defence of the Archontic El-lite agenda (Fig 404).

Another of the ‘fact-checkers’ is The Washington Post with

its long and appalling history of manipulating information

and producing fake stories to serve the interests of the Deep

State. When the button was pressed in late 2016 on the fake

news scam the Post published a story about 200 alternative

sites accused of circulating ‘Russian propaganda’. This

ridiculously alleged Russian connection came from

propornot.com, a truly fake news site which is written anonymously and launched in 2016 – the year the fake news

hoax began. The Washington Post was forced to distance

itself from the story after a backlash that included even

mainstream sources. Some on the list were guilty of fake

news, some were not, and this was another example of

lumping the two together to use one to discredit the other.

The list named Yournewswire, but also the genuinely

alternative and excellent Activist Post. Even then the Russia

propaganda claim against Yournewswire was crazy. Maybe

they thought that Baxter Dmitry is really Russian and really

exists! The Washington Post was also caught out in the

same period claiming that Russians hacked the US

electricity grid at a facility in Vermont, when it turned out

that the ‘hack’ – with no evidence of Russian involvement –

was on a laptop not even connected to the grid system.

These are the people handed the power to ‘fact-check’ fake

news and cause information to be censored. The System

could not make its game more obvious if it used neon lights.

Facebook is urging users to flag up and report fake news to

them. No self-respecting tyranny would be complete without

getting the target population to inform on and censor the

target population and yet millions will do what Facebook

tells them while going ‘baa, baa, baa’. Assistant Professor

Melissa Zimdars, a system-serving ‘progressive’ academic

and ‘feminist and activist’ at Merrimack College in

Massachusetts, is another fake to be given mainstream

media prominence for highlighting fake news sites to avoid.

Her list included painfully obvious satirical sites and those

alternative sources she didn’t agree with. No doubt she

claims to believe in freedom, like much of the ‘progressive’

movement which spends its time deleting freedom. French

newspaper Le Monde posted a list of ‘conspiracy news sites’

in a bid to discredit them (there are no conspiracies you

see). Talk about desperate, and you will see this campaign

go on increasing against those with other versions of events

and reality. This is digital book burning.





F igure 4 0 3 : Facebook and Google – Censorship Inc.

F igure 4 0 4 : Zionist billionaire manipulator George Soros. You’ll be

hearing

much more about him before the end of the book.

Meanwhile, governments that claim to be so concerned

about fake news are employing armies of people (and

algorithms) to create fake profiles to manipulate opinion on

social media and ‘control the narrative’. They are known as

‘cyber troops’ and a five-year study by researchers at the

Computational Propaganda Project at Oxford University

found that this manipulation of opinion and perception was

being employed more comprehensively by ‘democracies’

than officially-labelled authoritarian regimes when it came

to targeting opinion in other countries. The research team

published their findings in a paper entitled ‘Troops, Trolls

and Troublemakers: A Global Inventory of Organised Social

Media Manipulation’ which included research across 28

countries including the UK, US, Germany, Russia, Saudi

Arabia, Syria, Turkey and Venezuela. The paper said that

‘almost every democracy in this sample has organised

social media campaigns that target foreign publics.’ Lead

author Samantha Bradshaw noted the prominence of social

media manipulation among democratic governments and

how they were using the same ‘tools and techniques’ as

authoritarian regimes. ‘I don’t think people realise how

much governments are using these tools to reach them. It’s

a lot more hidden.’ The paper highlighted the British Army’s

77th Brigade which was formed in 2015 to ‘focus on non-

lethal psychological operations using social networks like

Facebook and Twitter to fight enemies by gaining control of

the narrative in the information age.’ In the United States

they named DARPA (the technology arm of the Pentagon),

US Cyber Command, US Agency for International

Development and the Air Force as the major vehicles for

targeting public opinion through social media in projects

costing tens of millions of dollars. The techniques are also

used by the Democratic and Republican parties. The Oxford

team found that people were also targeted individually and

this is being done by governments that say there must be

more censorship to stop fake news and the manipulation of

opinion. The hypocrisy is extraordinary.

The monetisation conspiracy Another weapon

used to close down the genuine alternative is to deny those

websites income through advertising, whether from

Google’s ad system or YouTube (also owned by Google) and

other Internet ad agencies. They know that most truth-

driven sites, unlike the clickbait merchants, scratch an often

meagre living from these sources to allow them to pay

website costs and work full-time on their research and

communication. Google and its video subsidiary YouTube are

now denying advertising income to content dubbed

‘controversial’, fake news, ‘extremist’ and the latest one –

‘not advertiser friendly’. The Spider Web structure allows for

coordination between on the face of it unconnected

organisations, and in early 2017 we had the mock outrage

from major global corporations about their advertising being

used on YouTube with ‘extremist’ videos. Funny, it had never

bothered them before and then suddenly it bothered them

all in unity, and how kind of the UK Times newspaper,

owned by Rupert Murdoch, to ‘expose’ the connection so

they could all be outraged together. Did no one ever look

before? More than 250 companies withdrew their

advertising and they included Marks & Spencer, Toyota,

HSBC, AT& T, General Motors, Verizon, Walmart and Johnson

& Johnson. It may be worth remembering this before you

part with your money. Matt Peacock, Vodaphone’s Director

of Corporate Affairs, said they had created a ‘white list’ of

sites where their advertising can only be used which were

‘in line with our values’. Vodaphone has values; well, you

live and learn. You would have thought that the ‘extremist’

videos they were talking about were ISIS beheadings and

such like, but YouTube video sites that were denied

advertising revenue as a result of this coordination were

those throughout the alternative media. It is all so

transparent. Simply talking about anything ‘controversial’ is

demonised by Google’s YouTube or in their own words:

‘Video content that features or focuses on sensitive topics or

events including, but not limited to, war, political conflicts,

terrorism or extremism, death and tragedies, sexual abuse,

even if graphic imagery is not shown, is generally not

eligible for ads.’ YouTube further includes on this list ‘videos

about recent tragedies, even if presented for news or

documentary purposes’ – the alternative view of those

events is what they really mean. We have advertisers for my

own YouTube videos that want them to be used, but Web-

asset Google/YouTube still won’t allow that because the

game is to undermine the alternative media in every way

they can. The mainstream media was not affected in the

same way because their content is what the El-lite

controlling these companies want you to believe. This

‘advertiser boycott’ story was reported as bad for YouTube

owners Google because of the loss of advertising revenue,

but (a) the goal of mass human control is far more

important to the Archontic Reptilian networks than just

money and (b) to a corporation as monumentally wealthy as

Google it was back-pocket change. ‘Brand expert’ Eric

Schiffer said: ‘Google is also best positioned to put the kiss

of death to online hate because of their mastery at

determining the relevancy of content ... They will do their

best to asphyxiate hate merchants, and in the process, 90

per cent of brands which left will return to the fold within

one to three months.’ Of course they will. For ‘hate’ read

what they don’t want you to see. The moral high-ground is

being claimed by Google when it has been exposed for

paying academics millions to write papers in support of its

claims that collecting vast amounts of data from its

customers is justified. In some cases the academics did not

reveal who was paying them. The Wall Street Journal

claimed to have seen thousands of emails revealing

financial relationships with professors from the world’s

leading universities. Moral Google? Joke.

The censorship cabal The theme of where this is

going is typified by an oil and gas drilling advocacy group

which sent an open letter to Google asking for anti-fracking

websites to be purged or demoted in the listings. ‘... We

urge you to consider purging or demoting these websites

from your algorithm, which in turn will encourage a more

honest public discussion about hydraulic fracturing, and oil

and natural gas development in general’, the letter said.

Orwellian translation: ‘We only want people to see what

suits us.’ Some sites have been outright blacklisted by the

Google monster that fixes search engine listings and word

searches to manipulate the political agenda it represents.

Algorithms are also in place with Facebook, Google and

others to block the circulation of alternative information.

Only a fraction of those who want to be alerted to my

Facebook posts ever see them because of algorithmic

manipulation while Zuckerberg, official head of Facebook,

acts the role of regular guy and man of the people. You cool

with that? Cool. Zuckerberg was caught out on a rogue live

microphone at a United Nations event discussing with

Germany’s Chancellor Merkel the censorship of Facebook

posts by Germans criticising her open-door policy for

migrants which has created such upheaval and mayhem in

the country. Merkel and Zuckerberg both deserve each

other. Facebook has since banned people for ‘hate speech’

for posting the picture of a migrant who raped and killed a

19-year-old, while allowing those that say, ‘white women

should be hunted and killed then we won’t get white babies

who think the[y] own the world’. This was deemed by the T-

shirt’s operation ‘not be a violation of community standards’

when it is plain racism, but from Facebook’s point of view it

is the right kind of racism. I’ll explain what I mean later.

Then you have the stage show of authorities ‘putting

pressure’ on Internet giants Facebook, Google and Twitter to

censor ‘fake news’ and so give them public relations cover

when they ‘reluctantly’ bow to that ‘pressure’ and do what

they were going to do all along. What a joke it all is. Justice

Minister Heiko Maas in the Undemocratic Republic of

Germany pushed through a bill imposing fines of up to 50

million euros for social media sites that don’t quickly delete

‘hate speech’ or defamatory ‘fake news’. Maas demanded

that companies be compelled to nominate a person to

handle complaints who would be personally fined up to five

million euros if the German tyranny is not obeyed. I’m sure

they will be lining up to take that job, then. Facebook said it

planned to have 700 people in Berlin dealing with ‘flagged

content’ by the end of 2017. The supreme arrogance of

Maas and his colleagues includes forcing social networks to

create ‘an easily recognisable, directly reachable, and

constantly available’ complaint system for ‘prosecutable

content’. This opens the door for censors among the public

pushing their own agenda or through sheer vindictiveness

to complain about material they don’t want others to see,

and it will be removed out of fear of facing censure from the

authoritarian German government. Other countries will

follow this lead for sure. Germany now has an extreme level

of totalitarianism imposing its will on the population while

claiming to be a free country. Renate Kuenast, a German

Green Party legal expert, said: ‘My fear, and that of many

others, is that in the end the version [Maas] is now

presenting will limit freedom of opinion because it will

simply become delete, delete, delete.’ Well, first of all that’s

the whole idea and second maybe the Green parties of the

world will keep that in mind when they are supporting the

systematic deletion of freedom of expression through

political correctness or what the great American comedian

George Carlin called ‘fascism pretending to be manners’.

Still, at least someone is delighted with Germany’s gross

attack on freedom. Robert Singer, the chief executive of the

World Jewish Congress, was gushing in his praise:

The internet is awash with hateful content, a lot of which

is incitement to hatred and violence. Currently, it often

takes providers far too long to remove or block such

content. It’s important that the internet companies and

politicians take this problem seriously, and we commend

Germany for taking the lead on this.

How about Israeli politicians and others expressing their

hate for Palestinians? Ahhh, we must defend the right to

freedom of speech. Okay, got you. Not only Zionism is being

protected from exposure, so is Islam. Google is directing

staff to flag content that may be ‘upsetting and offensive’

and push down the listings anything that is inaccurate or

has

other

questionable

attributes,

thereby

giving

prominence to [what they decide are] trustworthy sources.

On that basis Google will be censoring itself. The policy is to

delete material that is obviously true such as the fact that

some expressions of Islam are horrific and intolerant. Most

Muslims in my experience just want to get on with their lives

and peacefully bring up their families, but many others, as

in Wahhabi Saudi Arabia, behead people and outrageously

oppress women as does US/UK/Saudi-created Wahhabi ISIS.

Does this qualify as ‘upsetting and offensive’? Not to the

Internet giants, it seems. A Pakistani journalism student was

beaten to death in 2017 by an insane mob of about ten

Muslim students shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ because of

‘blasphemy’ during a heated debate on religion. He was

struck so violently that his skull caved in. At least 65 people

have been murdered for blasphemy in Pakistan (and the

rest) since 1990, and insulting the Prophet Muhammad

carries a death sentence. Many are in jail awaiting trial and

execution. It has become routine for Christians to be

accused of blaspheming against Islam. The first Christian

governor of Jakarta, Indonesia, was sentenced to two years

in jail for blasphemy against Islam by brainless ‘judges’ for

‘using words with negative connotations regarding the

symbols of religions’ while lunatics outside protested that it

should have been the maximum five years. What confidence

can these crazies have in their religion if they fear any

questioning and have to silence people by killing them or

sending them to prison? You would have thought that

‘moral’ Facebook would stand up against such terror and

violence, but no. We have had Pakistani Prime Minister

Nawaz Sharif calling for the immediate prosecution of

anyone publishing ‘blasphemous content’ on social media.

You know Pakistan, home of free speech, religious freedom

and basic humanity. First on the far right – can’t miss it.

Sharif proclaimed: ‘The [posting of] blasphemous content on

social media is an unclean attempt to play with the feelings

of the Muslim Ummah [community] ... Effective steps must

be taken immediately to remove and block this material.’

You mean censorship to suit your programmed belief

system, mate. This means the same in any language and

with any religion, gender or sexual preference so long as

you are not a white man (impossible to abuse or blaspheme

against, apparently). Pakistan Interior Secretary Arif Khan

was soon crowing about how gutless Facebook had removed

85 percent of the material the religious tyranny had deemed

blasphemous. Facebook is just an agent of government and

The System and treats its users and their basic human

rights to express an opinion with total contempt. Notice how

all these people, Jewish, Muslim, whatever, who otherwise

agree on virtually nothing, come together in seamless unity

when it comes to having the right to silence those who

question their stance or beliefs. This unity reflects their

mutual self-interest in censorship.

The plan is to lump together the fake news claims-to-be-

alternative with the genuine alternative and censor one

justified by the actions of the other. I don’t want any of them

to be censored not even ‘Baxter Dmitry’. I want the public to

become more streetwise and discerning so they don’t go to

sites that seek to exploit them with misleading headlines

and fake text and certainly not circulate them. The first time

they are manipulated by clickbait is the last time they ever

open a story from that site again never mind share it. This is

the way to deal with it, by making people aware of what to

look for and how they are being scammed. Once you start

deciding what can and can’t be seen, what is fact and what

isn’t, then you give the power of censorship to those making

those decisions. Fake news is preferable to censored ‘news’.

Who fact-checks the fact-checkers? Who owns the fact-

checkers? What is their agenda? Answers: (1) no-one; (2)

those who want to control the information that people see;

(3) to use claims of ‘fake news’ to censor information they

wish to suppress. Discernment of the public is what we

should be working for not censorship which serves only the

interests of the El-lite. I want people to be their own fact-

checkers. Theresa May, the British Prime Minister who

appears to despise privacy and freedom of speech,

announced in her Conservative Party’s manifesto for the

2017 General Election that she planned huge restrictions on

what people can post, share and publish online. The

manifesto said: ‘Some people say that it is not for

government to regulate when it comes to technology and

the internet. We disagree’. Britain would become ‘the global

leader in the regulation of the use of personal data and the

internet’ – the global leader in censoring what they don’t

want the public to know. The British government has an

alleged ‘anti-terrorism’ strategy called ‘Prevent’ which

equates being sceptical about the prevailing order and

status quo with potential for terrorism. Prevent encourages

the public and demands that schools, universities and



government offices and others report those with possible

‘terrorist sympathies’; but the term is defined so widely that

this can mean anyone who questions or challenges official

narratives. All this is a stepping stone to an even wider

definition that equates people like me with terrorism for,

ironically, exposing government involvement in terrorism.

Former British Prime Minister David Cameron, one of the

prime figures responsible for the Libya catastrophe, made a

speech along these lines at the UN. The Establishment-

controlled BBC would surely be in support of such

censorship after announcing on its website that it may send

personal information of any users to employers, ‘relevant

third parties’, school email internet providers or law

enforcement agencies if they consider the content

‘offensive, inappropriate or objectionable’. I find the BBC

offensive, inappropriate or objectionable but I still support

its freedom of speech. A quaint old concept these days, I

know, but I’m sticking with it.

F igure 4 0 5 : Zionist Zucker heads one of the most biased ‘news’

sources on

Planet Earth.

Double-whammy Donald Trump, flushed with support

from many major US ‘alternative’ websites, began using the

same term ‘fake news’ to describe the mainstream media

especially after he came to power in January 2017 (Fig 405).

This is an accurate description justified by more than a

century of mainstream media manipulation in service to the

Deep State agenda. But this is where I return to that ‘other

angle’ I mentioned with regard to Trump’s attacks on the

mainstream media. To see through the smoke and mirrors

always watch the outcomes and less the words and

explanations for why something is being done. Outcomes

are what matter because it is outcomes that change society,

not speeches and rhetoric. On one side you have fake news

sources claiming to be ‘alternative’ and on the other the

fake news mainstream almost in its entirety. I emphasise,

however, the almost. There are still a few chinks of light

despite the massive global edifice of hierarchical

information control that has the Web dictating to media

owners who dictate to editors who dictate to journalists who

tell the readers and viewers what the Web wants them to

believe. By chinks of light I mean those journalists who still

seek to uncover the truth and tell the public what they have

a right to know. They may not be aware of the big

conspiratorial picture but they investigate elements of it in

isolation that produce important revelations about how the

world is run, which make uncomfortable reading for the El-

lite and their gofers. The System has these genuine

journalists in its gunsights as well and that includes security

agency surveillance to uncover their sources and harsh laws

against government whistleblowers to stop the flow of

insider information. Theresa May’s disgraceful, freedom-

destroying Investigatory Powers Act or ‘snooper’s charter’

introduced in the UK in 2016 is one major example which

the opposition Labour Party of Jeremy Corbyn outrageously

failed to oppose. A US federal judge has ruled that the FBI

can spy on journalists without revealing the legal basis on

which this is done. Research by the Institute of Advanced

Legal Studies at the University of London found that

journalists are finding it increasingly difficult to maintain the

anonymity of sources in the wake of telephone and Internet

surveillance. German news magazine Der Spiegel revealed

in 2017 how the Germany intelligence agency BND had

been spying on foreign journalists for 20 years and

monitored at least 50 telephone numbers, fax numbers and

e-mail addresses of journalists, newsrooms and editorial

offices around the world. Reporters Without Borders in

Germany described the surveillance as a ‘a monstrous

attack on press freedom’. BND was sharing relevant

information with the CIA and other global agencies because

they are strands in the same Web. The idea is to use the

‘fake news’ technique of lumping together the remaining

genuine mainstream journalists and courageous editors with

the gutless manipulation and system-serving of the rest.

The El-lite’s desired outcome for the fake news rhetoric on

both sides is to censor into nonexistence the genuine

alternative media and what is left of the genuine

mainstream. I don’t want the mainstream media censored

any more than I do nonsense put out by fake news elements

in the alleged alternative. No one should be in favour of

media censorship and sanction more than me after the

disgusting way I have been treated and reported since

1990. But I don’t want that – indeed I vehemently oppose it

– because I value freedom far more. I would much rather be

abused by idiots than have the idiots censored at the

expense of the intelligent or the mendacious at the expense

of the genuine. Censorship law doesn’t choose between

them and treats them all the same.

Two activists who used undercover filming to expose the

scandal of Planned Parenthood discussing the sale of foetal

tissue found themselves facing 15 felony charges for

‘invading the privacy of medical providers by filming without

consent’. What about government agencies filming

everywhere without consent? Ahh, that’s different. This is

the world we now live in. The UK Guardian bleated about the

way other governments have followed Trump’s anti-media

lead and banned outlets for ‘fake news’, and how the

Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched a website to flag

up what it says is fake media reporting by The New York

Times, Al-Jazeera, and others. I see nothing wrong with

setting up a website to highlight alleged false reporting and

explaining why. It is censoring or suppressing that

information which is the danger. Bleating by The Guardian

would be more credible if it defended the alternative media

from the fake news hoax and if it did not engage in

manipulating and slanting its own journalism to fit with its

political and corporate agenda. Lack of genuine mainstream

journalism has caused this anti-media campaign by

providing the authorities with an excuse, and the same with

the fake, opportunistic elements of the so-called alternative.

Mainstream media seeks to discredit the alternative with the

label fake news because the alternative is taking its

audience, when it only has itself to blame for that, and

many in the alternative seek to discredit the mainstream

with claims of fake news while delivering fake news

themselves. So-called progressives hurl their hatred at

Trump and call him fascist while they, too, support fascist-

like censorship of the media that they don’t agree with.

‘Progressive’ academics call for banning the UK Daily Mail

because they claim its readers have an ‘abnormal

perception of reality’. Unlike those who demand an end to

free speech, I take it. What a chilling statement that is. How

many times have terms like ‘abnormal perception of reality’

been used by the most repressive regimes to justify

incarcerating dissidents in psychiatric units and ‘re-

education’ centres? Progressive fascism is now a global

disease. Other ‘progressives’ have led calls to bring down

newspapers they don’t like by targeting their advertisers

while in America tyrannical progressives are running similar

campaigns against TV news programmes they disagree

with. I don’t share the Daily Mail’s politics in the least, but it

still produces some excellent investigative journalism within

the Postage Stamp and that is why the paper and its

website are really being targeted. The Mail’s successful

campaign in support of a Brexit vote will have also put the

paper right in the firing line. How breathtaking beyond belief

to contemplate the mental gymnastics and self-deception

necessary to claim to stand for free speech and human

rights while calling for a newspaper to be banned because

its perceptions and those of its readers are different to

yours. Freedom of speech is what it says on the tin – the

freedom to speak. This includes the freedom for people to

say what we don’t like as well as what we do. The first part

of that sentence is what programmed ‘progressive’

perceptions cannot compute. They are so submerged in

their own extremes of narcissism that they can’t

comprehend their own stupidity and hypocrisy. There is a

reason for this which I will soon address and it relates to

how ‘progressive’ academia and swathes of the

‘progressive’ student population have been lured into states

of what I can only perceive as forms of mental illness.

Extremists in the progressive (regressive) Left and Centre

and their ‘opponents’ in the equally self-deluded Right are

united in their desire to target and censor the media. They

may target different sections, but together they target the

whole. Never mind the words, watch the outcome.

Hack attack Trump projects his daily abuse at the

American mainstream while the British version is clearly

being targeted by an Establishment cheered on by

supposedly

‘anti-Establishment’

(yet

another

irony)

progressives. Plans to censor the UK print media began in

earnest when operatives working for British Intelligence

front organisations infiltrated national newspapers through

their arms-length-away ‘private security firms’. This was

done most famously with the Rupert Murdoch-owned

tabloid, the News of the World, when infiltrators introduced

a policy of illegal phone-tapping to listen to conversations of

the famous and those involved in topical stories. Content of

the hacked phone calls would appear in the News of the

World as ‘exclusives’. They wouldn’t set up an insider like

Rupert Murdoch? He’s small fry to The Spider no matter how

powerful he may seem to be in the public arena. They are

all expendable to the greater agenda. Former News of the

World investigator Christine Hart told me how the phone-

hacking scam was instigated and how the same sources

were keen to ‘get’ the Daily Mail. Once the News of the

World had been set up the phone-tapping activities were

made public and the paper shut down amid the furore that

followed. The anti-media campaign that then emerged was

spearheaded by a group that called itself Hacked Off and

one of its major voices was the actor Hugh ‘plays-the-same-

part-in-every-film’ Grant. The scandal was used to justify a

government investigation into the behaviour of the UK press

headed by a judge, Lord Leveson, who recommended the

creation of an ‘independent’ body to oversee the industry.

Impress, the ‘independent’ body subsequently recognised

by the government, is funded to the tune of millions by Max

Mosley, who can’t stand the Press. He is the son of British

fascist Oswald Mosely. The Daily Mail revealed how Max

Mosely had given £ 500,000 to the press-condemning deputy

leader of the opposition Labour Party, Tom Watson. How

remarkably independent this all is. A Mail editorial said:

Mr Mosley has pursued a campaign against the Press

since he was exposed by the now-defunct News of the

World for taking part in a sado-masochistic orgy involving

five prostitutes. Among Impress board members is one

who has tweeted his wish to ban the Daily Mail, and

others who have backed the campaign to drive centre-

Right newspapers out of business by starving them of

advertising.

Even if Impress had impeccably fair-minded credentials,

this paper would refuse to join it, on the principle that it is

wrong for the Press to submit to state regulation. As it is,

the very thought of surrender to such a creepy body is

unthinkable.

But not, it seems, to the government and its string-pullers.

Among the do-or-die options proposed by the government

was for newspapers to either agree to be regulated by

Mosley’s mob or face having costs awarded against them



even if they won libel actions. You read that correctly. Papers

that didn’t sign up to this ‘independent’ press-hating body

would have to pay the costs of anyone suing them even if

the case was found in favour of the paper. This would

inevitably lead them all into certain bankruptcy. Did I

mention that the Establishment is desperate to part the

media from what is left of its balls? Fortunately, at the time

of writing, they have backed off from this, and we’ll see

where it goes from here. The phone-hacking scandal was

the manipulated excuse to justify new censorship laws for

which there was no need. Phone-hacking was already illegal

and journalists have been jailed for that. None of this has

been about hacking, but about censorship. Those cheering

on Trump, Leveson, Hacked Off and Impress because they

don’t like the mainstream media might benefit from a

rethink and so, too, might the purveyors of fake news in

both the mainstream and ‘alternative’ media. They might

consider how their behaviour has brought all this about by

providing the ammunition and public contempt now being

trawled to justify across-the-board censorship that will

include the genuine alternative and genuine mainstream.

This was the plan all along.

F igure 4 0 6 : New media for the next stage of the perceptual

lockdown.

Information hijack The El-lite are well into the

process of transferring sources of news and information

from traditional newspapers, television, radio and

independent websites to Internet giants Google, Facebook,

Twitter and their like (Fig 406). Many newspapers are being

forced to go online only as paper sales fall. Plans for news

and information domination by the Internet giants are

motivated by the potential to use algorithms to manipulate

what people are allowed to see. Twitter announced in 2017

a new system of algorithms to identify accounts engaging in

abusive behaviour and then censor them. How long before

the interpretation of abusive includes any information that

challenges orthodox and official narratives? The technology

is already in place to do that and only the code would need

updating. Around a hundred websites dominate Internet

traffic. Zionist-controlled Google has 1.2 trillion searches a

year; Google-owned YouTube has more than a billion active

users per month; and Zionist-controlled Facebook, which

also owns Instagram, WhatsApp and so much more, claims

two billion active users. I am guiding people to some

YouTube videos in this book because its domination means

that is the only place you can see them. We seriously need

another mass video platform that believes in freedom not

censorship. American intelligence whistleblower Edward

Snowden said of Facebook: ‘To have one company that has

enough power to reshape the way we think, I don’t think I

need to describe how dangerous that is.’ Those who have

abandoned their alternative websites to operate from a

Facebook page have been well and truly had. Facebook

deleted thousands of UK accounts in the run-up to the UK

General Election in June 2017 and launched a ‘new drive’ to

tackle ‘fake news’ with technology to detect patterns of

people who repeatedly post the same things and to demote

articles on its news feed so people will see them less often

or not at all. The fake news mainstream media was not

affected (but it will be eventually if it steps out of line).

Albert Speer, Nazi Germany’s Minister of Armaments and

War Production, said at the Nuremberg trials:

Hitler’s dictatorship differed in one fundamental point

from all its predecessors in history. His was the first

dictatorship in the present period of modern technical

development, a dictatorship which made complete use of

all technical means in a perfect manner for the

domination of its own nation. Through technical devices

such as radio and loudspeaker 80 million people were

deprived of independent thought. It was thereby possible

to subject them to the will of one man.

Speer was talking about Hitler’s ‘People’s Receiver’ radio

system in which the population were given cheap radios en

masse that could only pick up broadcasts from within

Germany and Austria. This is happening today on a global

scale by ever-increasing concentration of power over

information in a handful of Internet corporations centrally-

controlled by the same Web network. Geopolitical

researcher Tony Cartalucci wrote:

Facebook has constructed a modern day People’s Receiver

for corporate-financier special interests – with alternatives

omitted from the tuning dials, and lacking the technical

ability to receive alternative information from outside

Facebook’s carefully controlled information space. It is the

modern day destruction of independent thought – an

information cage [which many] like the German people

during the 1930-40’s may not even realize they’re locked

in.



Just as people fought hard to up-end the Nazi propaganda

machine during World War II, people today are and must

continue to confront, undermine, and eventually displace

Facebook’s monopoly over modern day communication.

Unlike Nazi Germany’s People’s Receivers, Facebook

doesn’t taint and skew the perception of just 80 million

Germans, but includes a user base spread out across the

planet and numbering nearly 2 billion.

F igure 4 0 7 : Algorithms can censor information you are not allowed

to see

without need for human intervention once the code is written.

Facebook’s Zuckerberg has since claimed that the number

has passed two billion just 13 years after its launch and the

second billion has come in less than five years. The T-shirt

says Facebook can take over from churches and, in the

sense of dictating perceptions and turning alternative

thought into blasphemy, it already has. Andreas Schleicher,

director of education and skills at the Organization for

Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), made the

point that social media tends to be an ‘echo chamber’

connecting people who think alike and he said it was

important for schools to ensure a wide range of debate and

views are heard. He is right, but that isn’t what The System

wants. News feeds, YouTube, and advertising algorithms

offer people choices based on surfing history and what they

have seen before. This, too, is reducing the chances of

coming across something that makes you think differently.

Facebook admits that algorithms listen to private

conversations through device microphones and this became

clear when people were seeing Facebook ads appearing that

related to personal conversations and discussions. Facebook

said: ‘We use your microphone to identify the things you are

listening to or watching.’ This is not only for targeted ads,

either, which are a secondary reason and not the main one

which is surveillance and personal data trawling. Once

social media giants – all answering to the Web – began to

dominate the circulation of news and information out came

the algorithms and censorship to dictate what the masses

see and don’t see (Fig 407). Mainstream media like the

dreadful New York Times cheer at the use of algorithms to

censor the alternative media, when they will be next in line

because the El-lite want to stop all exposure and challenge

even the trickle that still gets out here and there in the

mainstream. First you sell social media and the Internet as

the free-flow of information and when you have secured

enough control you bring in the censorship algorithms:

Hey, we’re all Mr Nice Guys, cool, man – look at my grey

‘I’m one of you’ T-shirt. Oh, we’ve reached domination

point? Right, now censor the bastards. Gotcha.

We have a US President communicating with the nation in

140 characters. Welcome to the world of the superficial with

its superficial ‘news’ for superficial minds to superficially

process into idiocy. We are heading towards the complete

elimination of genuine journalism of all kinds and the end of

substance which is really the same thing. Zionist-created

Wikipedia,

the

notoriously

inaccurate

Internet

‘encyclopaedia’, is consulted by hundreds of millions every

day as their ‘factual’ source on people, events and almost

everything you could imagine. The Daily Mail was banned by

Wikipedia as an information source in February 2017 and

when the paper investigated why this happened what they

found was both pathetic and chilling. A handful of people

with an anti-press and in some cases seriously anti-Daily

Mail agenda had simply got together and decided to ban the

Mail, while producing no evidential justification whatsoever.

One of them goes by the anonymous tags ‘Hillbillyholiday’

and ‘Tabloidterminator’ and has apparently been pictured

burning a copy of the Mail. Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales,

who is married to the former diary secretary for Tony Blair

and was on the board of the Guardian, claims Wikipedia is a

democratic organisation – when a handful can just decide to

ban a national newspaper. Wikipedia asks its visitors for

donations to pay for the site while sitting on assets of more

than $90 million and is among the most visited websites in

the world. Wales announced without a hint of irony in 2017

that he was launching a new website ‘Wikitribune’ to

produce ‘fact-checked, global news stories’ to overcome

fake news: ‘I find myself being a bit upset that people are

making decisions based on lies, false information and so on,

so I want to add a new trusted information source to all the

other ones out there.’ I suppose he could be referring to

claims that Greek philosopher Plato was a surfer from

Hawaii who discovered Florida and that singer Robbie

Williams eats domestic pets – both of which appeared on

Wikipedia. Information is being hijacked by a tiny few

Internet giants and this is not where it is planned to end.

Jonathan Taplin reveals the scale of domination in his book,

Move Fast and Break Things: How Facebook, Google and

Amazon Cornered Culture and Undermined Democracy. He

points out that the world’s five highest-valued companies

are Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook which

have secured monumental levels of market domination. The

potential this has for dictating the information that people

see – or don’t – requires no elaboration. They monetise the

lives of the global population and exploit their creativity

while paying them nothing or a pittance in return compared

with the amazing wealth they accumulate for themselves.

Taplin writes: ‘Not since Rockefeller and J.P. Morgan has

there been such a concentration of wealth and power ... and

the enormous unprecedented fortunes created by the digital

revolution have done much to increase inequality in

America.’ In the world as a whole, too, and they are way

more powerful in the digital age than even the industrial

robber barons ever were. Together they seek to control

everything and everyone for their Archontic masters.

Heads need symbolically knocking together in the

mainstream media, and the alternative, before they are

divided and ruled into oblivion. The mainstream seeks to

eliminate what it perceives as the competition as it rapidly

loses its audience to alternative sources. The alternative





revels in the demise of the mainstream it despises and has

sought to replace. Such black and white thinking will destroy

the freedom of both and is already well on the way to doing

so. We need some maturity here. We need to see the shades

of grey where truth always sits between the black and

white. Mature and intelligent expressions of the mainstream

need to come together with the mature and intelligent in

the alternative and let us meet this challenge together. The

idiots in both camps never will, but so be it. Those that can

see the writing painted large need to unite – and fast.



‘None are more hopelessly enslaved than those who falsely

believe they are free’ – J ohann Wolfgang von Goethe

The perception deception and its required suppression of

other views and perspectives have plumbed still new depths

with the emergence of a form of psychological warfare

known as political correctness, or ‘PC’.

F igure 4 0 8 : PC antidote.

I am not exaggerating with the term ‘psychological

warfare’ when you consider its definition: ‘The use of

activities that cause fear and anxiety in the people you want

to influence without hurting them physically.’ So, no, it’s not

too strong. Psychological warfare describes the way PC’s

psychological fascism programs perception by the exclusion

of other views and opinions, and by the use of fear and

intimidation to silence dissenters. There is an antidote that I

can recommend because I know it works from personal

experience. When the PC fanatics seek to silence your right

to an opinion try this reply: ‘Fuck off.’ You will feel the

freedom frequency surge through your being and dispatch

any emotional effects of intimidation. Let’s try that again:

‘Fuck off.’ Again: ‘Fuck off.’ Good stuff (Fig 408). Now we

have established the cure we’ll deal with the utter madness

itself for which there is no cure short of expanded

awareness. No, I’m not holding my breath either, but you do

what you can. Political correctness is an El-lite tool for

getting the target population to silence and censor itself so

they don’t have to (Fig 409). PC foot soldiers and storm

troopers are dominated by progressives (regressives) and

they can be easily spotted by their manic facial expression,

stupendous self-righteousness, heart on the sleeve and the

torch which allows them to see while in permanent

residence up their own arse. The term progressive describes

a mental and emotional state of such self-centric self-



delusion that it skewers and inverts reality in the extreme.

Progressives think they are (a) anti-Establishment and (b)

liberal; but they are neither. Progressives are the new

Establishment and crucial to the social engineering

networks which instigated political correctness to

manipulate the population to censor itself. Claims that a

progressive is a liberal are demolished by these definitions:

F igure 4 0 9 : Sheep policing the sheep so the shepherds don’t have

to.

Progressive: Favouring or advocating progress, change,

improvement, or reform, as opposed to wishing to

maintain things as they are, especially in political matters.

Liberal: Favourable to or in accord with concepts of

maximum individual freedom possible, especially as

guaranteed by law and secured by governmental

protection of civil liberties. Favouring or permitting

freedom of action, especially with respect to matters of

personal belief or expression.

This definition of progressive nowhere mentions the word

‘liberal’ while perceptions of what constitutes progress,

change, improvement or reform are purely subjective. That

definition could be applied to what the Nazis did in Germany

which they would have seen as progress, change,

improvement or reform. The definition of liberal is

everything that PC progressives are not – favouring

maximum individual freedom, government-guaranteed civil

liberties and supporting ‘freedom of action, especially with

respect to matters of personal belief or expression’. This is

precisely what progressives are seeking to destroy and the

last thing they are is ‘liberal’. They can’t see this obvious

fact because of said stupendous self-righteousness. This

whole area headed ‘progressive’ is so important to

understand. We are told to fear the ‘far-right’ when the

vehicle for introducing global tyranny is being called

progressive. If you want to hide the fact that you are

deleting freedoms and manipulating behaviour and

perception then don’t use a bloke with a tiny moustache

with his arm in the air who goose-steps down the street.

This is far too obvious and someone might notice. Instead,

use those who present themselves as ‘caring’, ‘thoughtful’

and ‘nice’. You are still employing the stick, but you make it

look like a carrot. A good example of the concept is an app

introduced by the Canadian government to award people

points for basically ‘good behaviour’. The app, named

‘Carrot Rewards’, gives people discount points for things like

food, movies and flights, if they follow a lifestyle

recommended by the Canadian government. The Chinese

tyranny is also on the case at an even more extreme level

and this is the way behaviour is planned to be manipulated

globally. Remember how the wolf in Little Red Riding Hood

was dressed like a nice old granny. Whenever the

‘progressive’ state wants to reward you for doing what it

says be sure to look for the big ears, big eyes and big teeth

because they will always be hiding under granny’s bonnet.

My use of the term ‘progressive’ from hereon does not

refer to those of the Left and Centre who are genuinely

liberal in the sense of the definition, but to those who call

themselves progressive while being the very antipathy of

liberal. The Postage Stamp Consensus is not a permanent

state of unchanging perception but a fluid one that reflects

the advancing stages of the Archontic agenda. Fascist

tyranny or communist tyranny may be the most effective

form of control in one era or country, but now the tyranny of

choice is labelled ‘progressive’. They serve the same goal at

each stage of entrapping perception within the firewall of

five-sense reality and everything else is the detail of how

most effectively this can be done. What suits the El-lite for

people to believe at one ‘time’ may not be most effective at

another. For example, Osama bin Laden was the good guy

(Postage Stamp Consensus) when he was fronting up the

covert US war against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan using

Mujahedeen ‘freedom fighters’ in the 1980s; but he became

the bad guy (Postage Stamp Consensus) when the US

needed an excuse to invade Afghanistan themselves in

2001. They said they had to invade to find bin Laden and

remove his Taliban protectors when the idea was never to

leave as I wrote at the time. All these years later the US and

NATO are still in Afghanistan and asking for more troops

with the excuse of the new buzz-term – ‘stabilisation’.

Whatever the prevailing nature and spin of Postage Stamp

Consensus it is crucial to the agenda that the majority of the

people – especially those with perceptual influence – believe

in it totally. They have to believe they are right and that

they hold the moral high ground because they are right.

From this comes the self-righteousness arrogance which

says that if I am right then anyone who believes something

different must by definition be wrong and so of no relevance

or importance. This mindset can then justify to itself the

oppression of non-believers and their views and even

violence (Fig 410). A perfect progressive example is the

demand for the Daily Mail to be banned because its readers

have ‘an abnormal perception of reality’. Abnormal here

only means different from I am right normal. ‘Non-believers’



is the right term given that political correctness is another

religion operating to the same blueprint. To question

religious orthodoxy during the Christian inquisition becomes

to question political correctness during the PC inquisition.

Being ‘un-PC’ is the new blasphemy. We have the same

program of the ages given a new alias. PC fanatics are only

religious fanatics in disguise, but how can they see that

when they are so right?

F igure 4 1 0 : Self-delusion on steroids.



On the road to PC

F igure 4 1 1 : And so he did.

Political correctness has been systematically allowed to

infest government departments, agencies and educational

establishments worldwide. From this base camp it was able

to make an assault on human society in general via ‘hate

laws’, language policing and mainstream media. One of the

wish-fors of the Frankfurt School of social engineering all

those decades ago was the creation of racism offences.

Political correctness has hijacked the language, put people

in constant fear of ‘saying the wrong thing’ (almost anything

these days) and created a whole army of mentally ill, mind-

controlled ‘progressive’ enforcers with their torches always

at hand. George Orwell described political correctness in his

prophetic epic Nineteen-Eighty-Four published in 1948. He

called this ‘Newspeak’ which is defined as ‘a controlled

language [used] as a tool to limit freedom of thought and

concepts that pose a threat to the regime such as freedom,

self-expression, individuality and peace.’ This is political

correctness to perfection. Newspeak was the language in

Orwell’s factually-based novel that replaced Oldspeak which

was the original vocabulary with endless words that could

describe detailed concepts to accurately reflect perceptions

and opinions. Newspeak deleted words that described detail

and replaced them with meaningless neutral words that

upset no one by actually saying anything (Fig 411). There

was no way to express vibrant opinion, concepts and views.

People will immediately recognise that concept in the sterile

and lifeless language of political correctness. Our conscious

mind thinks in words and so as political correctness deletes

Oldspeak for Newspeak succeeding generations are denied

language not only to speak in detail, but even to think in

detail. We have today attempts to ban words as simple as

girl and boy, mum and dad. The writer P.D. James rightly

concluded: ‘I believe that political correctness can be a form

of linguistic fascism, and it sends shivers down the spine of

my generation who went to war against fascism.’ While

Orwell was writing about Big Brother in the first half of the

20th century, today’s PC culture was already being planned

in the shadows as a means to highjack human perception

and behaviour and to silence dissent. The instigators from

the 1920s (though the PC concept goes back further) were

the neo-Marxist Rothschild and Zionist social engineers at

the Frankfurt School which later located its mind

manipulators in the United States and infiltrated college and

university campuses in California and then across the

country. Out of this came political correctness which was

subsequently exported to Europe and beyond. Seizing

perceptions of students is vital because they are the

decision makers and perceptual influencers of tomorrow.

Get them and you get wider society. And my god they have

got them. Not everyone – there are still students and young

people who can see through the bullshit and refuse to

comply; but what a daily challenge that must be in the

midst of such programmed fanaticism underpinned by

equally

programmed

academia

(with

honourable

exceptions). Progressive students may be aghast at much of

what I say in this book but many other students with a mind

of their own will be delighted that what they think has a

platform for once. There is much that American

conservative author William S. Lind and I would not agree

on, but he has penned some excellent critiques of political

correctness and its origins. He wrote:

The totalitarian nature of political correctness is revealed

nowhere more clearly than on college campuses, many of

which at this point are small ivy covered North Koreas,

where the student or faculty member who dares to cross

any of the lines set up by the gender feminist or the

homosexual-rights activists, or the local black or Hispanic

group, or any of the other sainted ‘victims’ groups that PC

revolves around, quickly find themselves in judicial

trouble. Within the small legal system of the college, they

face formal charges – some star-chamber proceeding –

and punishment. That is a little look into the future that

political correctness intends for the nation as a whole ...

... In the cultural Marxism of political correctness certain

groups are good – feminist women (only feminist women,

non-feminist women are deemed not to exist), blacks,

Hispanics, homosexuals. These groups are determined to

be ‘victims’, and therefore automatically good regardless

of what any of them do. Similarly, white males are

determined automatically to be evil, thereby becoming

the equivalent of the bourgeoisie in economic Marxism.

The last point is captured in a quote from American

‘radical feminist’ Robin Morgan: ‘I feel that man-hating is an

honourable and viable political act, that the oppressed have

a right to class-hatred against the class that is oppressing

them.’ Anyone who believes that hate is the way to respond

to anything has completely lost the plot and these people

did so long ago. If this is really about feminism how come

that when I observe its screaming advocates and extremists

that I see the traits of testosterone and not oestrogen? This

is not about rightly allowing women to equally express

themselves and their unique contribution to society; it is

about making women and men the same. I will explain later

why the El-lite want this to be. I have described how film

producer Aaron Russo revealed that businessman Nick

Rockefeller told him the Rockefeller family funded and

established feminism and women’s liberation to allow the

state to control children at the earliest possible age ‘to

indoctrinate them how to think’ and to destroy the family

unit. William S. Lind’s article about PC manipulation was

dated February 5th, 2000 and the situation is far worse now

and infinitely more extreme and widespread. Among the

victim groups that can since be added are those promoting

transgender issues although there will probably be three or

four more by the time I have finished this sentence. Oh,

look, there are. We have LGBT or lesbian, gay, bisexual, and

transgender. Is that too short for you? Okay, how about

LGBTQ or lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and ‘queer’

(questioning your sexual identity)? That’s still too short?

Shit. Well, let’s try LGBTIQ or lesbian, gay, bisexual,

transgender, intersex and ‘queer’. LGBT+ (encompassing a

spectrum of gender and sexuality) gets marks for brevity in

case you’re in a rush. Or maybe like me you’ll just settle for

BOLLOCKS (or don’t be so bloody silly). No, it doesn’t scan,

but has the benefit of accuracy. Political correctness must

create victims because without victims there can be no

identifiable oppressor. Victims are PC’s foundation currency

and from them all oppressors can be agreed upon and

targeted. One writer said: ‘The underlying message is that a

‘distressed’ cry-baby attitude is something to seek and

foster.’ This relates to what I call label consciousness which

self-identifies with Phantom Self and focuses perception on

five-sense reality at the expense of Infinite Awareness.

Political correctness is now subdividing former labels into

sub-labels and sub-labels of sub-labels, hence LGBTIQ.

We’re not finished yet, though. There is LGBTIQAA (one A is

for asexual with no desire for either gender and the other is

for androsexual or primarily attracted to men). But the

yellow jersey for idiocy (so far) goes to Wesleyan University

in Connecticut with LGBTTQQFAGPBDSM (lesbian, gay,

bisexual, transgender, transsexual, queer, questioning,

flexual,

asexual,

gender-fuck,

polyamorous,

bondage/discipline,

dominance/submission

and

sadism/masochism). With 26 letters of the alphabet to play

with I’m sure they’ve only just begun. Are we talking about

people here or a game of friggin’ Scrabble? How can

expanded awareness beyond The Program influence

perceptions of a Phantom Self subdivided in its self-identity

into such minutiae of parts and detail? How about a

subgroup of LGBTTQQFAGPBDSM for left-handed people?

They are another minority after all. It could be

LGBTTQQFAGPBDSMLH. And those with ingrowing toe nails

are another minority: LGBTTQQFAGPBDSMITN. If they are

left-handed that would be LGBTTQQFAGPBDSMLHITN. Other

labels include ‘non-binary’, ‘gender-fluid’ and ‘demisexual’

(only sexually attracted to someone if there is an emotional

connection). Label consciousness by its very nature insists

on a label for everything. How much genuine discrimination

is missed and not addressed amid this obsession with labels

and the fine detail of individual self-identity? Facebook

offers 56 varieties of gender category to choose from when

filling in a profile and the HSBC bank lists a series of

potential name prefixes for its banking customers such as

‘Ind’ (‘individual’), ‘Pr’ (‘person’) ‘Mre’ (‘mystery’) and ‘Misc’

(‘miscellaneous’). Hello, who are who? I’m Ms Cellaneous.

What do you do? Oh, this and that. Transgender prefixes

include ‘M’, Myr’, ‘Mx’, ‘Msr’, ‘Sai’ and ‘Ser’. New York City

businesses can be fined up to $250,000 for not referring to

someone’s chosen gender identity and the city’s

Commission on Human Rights helpfully supplies a list of 31

to choose from: bi-gendered; cross-dresser; drag king; drag

queen; femme queen; female-to-male; ftm; gender bender;

genderqueer;

male-to-female;

mtf;

non-op;

hijra;

pangender; transexual/transsexual; trans person; woman;

man; butch; two-spirit; trans; agender; third sex; gender

fluid; non-binary transgender; androgyne; gender gifted;

gender blender; femme; person of transgender experience;

androgynous.

Labels become ever more detailed and with each one

Infinite Awareness is further submerged and lost to nano-

self-identity and that is the whole idea. We are also told that

not all women have vaginas and not all men have dicks.

Well, actually, speaking physiologically, they do. Have a look

and you’ll see. All this is manipulating people into self-

identity so totally focused on the body, that expanded

awareness beyond the body is ever more powerfully

excluded. And what will a perception of perpetual

victimhood fold into existence for these people from the

quantum field of possibilities and probabilities? Victimhood

becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy as perception manifests a

holographic experience of victimhood perception. Victims

can only see (thus experience) victimisation. If they don’t

perceive themselves as victims they lose their self-identity.

The entire persona of Zionism and Israel, for example, is

founded on their sense of victimisation. In so many ways

they are the ultimate victim mentality which they

incessantly exploit to get their way. A few points to

emphasise to put all this into context: (1) I am not saying

there isn’t discrimination against those dubbed minority

groups or that this should not be rightly and determinedly

addressed; (2) nothing like all ‘lesbian, gay, bisexual,

transgender and intersex’ people live their lives as victims

and fall for political correctness; and (3) nor does everyone

from a ‘minority group’, racial or otherwise, take offense at

every last syllable said in their earshot. I am saying that

genuine discrimination is being exploited to promote

political correctness and some of what is claimed to be

discrimination – which I will be describing in this chapter – is

manufactured nonsense. The number of those instantly

upset by almost anything is growing rapidly for one obvious

reason: they are being told from all directions that they

should be upset. They have to be programmed to be upset

as a prerequisite to being a victim. No victim, no oppressor,

no political correctness. Manipulating people to be upset is

the essential starting point of the sequence and this is now

a global industry. Welcome to Planet Earth – BeUpset PLC, or

best forget the ‘L’. Here is a PC deprogramming technique

that I can highly recommend: ‘I am offended!’

‘Well, choose not to be.’

‘Phew, thanks, never thought of that.’

‘Okay now?’

‘Good.’

Taking offence and being a victim is a choice that you

don’t have to make but it’s the choice that The System and

El-lite are programming people to make. If they really cared

about you being upset the emphasis would not be on

censoring speech but on making the receiver or hearer

immune to any effect. They would set out to build self-

assurance and backbone in everyone so that whatever was



said could not hurt them. Then ‘you have upset me’

becomes ‘what a prick’. They don’t do that because they

want to breed weak people easily offended and not strong

people who couldn’t care less what anyone says about

them. The victim mentality should have been at my

shoulder for the last 30 years in the face of historic levels of

ridicule and abuse and see that you don’t have to run away

and hide. Lift your head up, push back your shoulders and

look life in the eye.



PC

is

BB

–

Big

Brother

F igure 4 1 2 : Does Big Brother prefer people with backbones of steel

or

backbones of jelly?

F igure 4 1 3 : Whaaaaa! I want my mummy – he’s just said

something I don’t

agree with. Whaaaaa!



Image credit: www.grrrgraphics.com

F igure 4 1 4 : Progressives and pro-Trump supporters in yet another

example of

the El-ite playing the target population against itself.

An additional bonus with PC is that those who self-identify

as victims in fear of their own shadows will give their power

away to the Big Brother state to ‘protect them’ from their

perceived oppressors which invariably will be some form of

majority (Fig 412). This is another pillar of the PC religion.

Only minorities can be oppressed and only majorities can be

oppressors. PC doesn’t do shades of grey and certainly not

subtlety. Far too much consciousness is required to process

such things. Many PC people will claim that the one percent

is oppressing the masses, but not to the extent they can see

how the same one percent is behind political correctness

which is a major vehicle for that oppression. Shakes head,

moves on. Opinions and information that the oppressing El-

lite doesn’t want people to hear are now routinely censored

by PC victims and groupies demanding ‘safe spaces’ where

nothing can be said that will upset anyone (Fig 413). In

other words, nothing worth hearing that might challenge

perception. Speakers that these programmed censors don’t

agree with are banned from appearing at universities or

‘deplatformed’ in PC parlance. This is often done amid

banner-waving protests hurling hate and abuse at those

they accuse of hate and abuse (Fig 414). I wonder if feminist

Robin Morgan supports anti-hate laws while she is hating

men? The UK National Union of Students actually produced

a publication entitled Managing the Risks Associated with

External Speakers: Guidance for HE Student’ Unions in

England and Wales to help students protect themselves and

their campus from controversial opinions. Blimey, the

Muppet Show would be controversial to these people

although it may help them feel at home. Do you remember

when student unions used to march for freedom of speech?

My god, you must have a good memory. ‘Left’ – as in the

progressive Left which dominates student unions – does not

represent what it did when I was younger. I don’t relate to

the Left-Right political spectrum which is just another

phenomenal perception trap, but some serious bias is at

work when academics at the UK’s University of Sussex can

arrange a meeting called ‘dealing with right-wing attitudes

and politics in the classroom’ when ‘dealing with

progressive attitudes and politics in the classroom’ would

most certainly have never have survived the censors (Fig

415). This is possible because progressives have hijacked

colleges and universities as they have hijacked the political

Left. Among those attacked and silenced by today’s ever-

upgraded PC have been those at the forefront for decades of

challenging genuine discrimination and taking untold flack

for doing so. They include British activist Peter Tatchell who

has spent decades campaigning for human rights and

against gay discrimination while today’s PC extremists were

not even thought of or still sucking on their dummy. Come



to think of it, they still are. Tatchell has done a sterling job

that rightly needed doing and he paid the price with a high

public profile that attracted for a long time extreme media

and public abuse. But in 2016 Fran Cowling, LGBT+ officer

for the National Union of Students, refused to speak at an

event on the subject unless Tatchell was dropped from the

line-up. Maybe he could have slipped in unnoticed when her

torch batteries ran out. Cowling accused him of being racist

and transphobic. Who – Peter Tatchell? Peter Tatchell? What

an example of the extremes of lunacy to which we have now

plummeted. These people could make a case of racism

against a lamp post. Tatchell’s crime is having the

intelligence and balance to see what undiluted political

correctness is doing to basic human rights. He told the Daily

Telegraph:

F igure 4 1 5 : Antifascist fascism.

This sorry, sad saga is symptomatic of the decline of free

and open debate on some university campuses. There is a

witch-hunting, accusatory atmosphere. Allegations are

made without evidence to back them – or worse, they are

made citing false, trumped-up evidence ... This is the

antithesis of the free and open inquiry that is supposed to

be the hallmark of university learning and culture.

The whole point of political correctness is to delete free

and open inquiry. Tatchell said of the National Union of

Students:

I just disagree with the way some of them choose to deal

with other people’s opinions. Anyone who doesn’t toe the

line politically risks being denounced, even over the

tiniest disagreement.

The race to be more Left-wing and politically correct than

anyone else is resulting in an intimidating, excluding

atmosphere on campuses. Universal human rights and

enlightenment values – including John Stuart Mill’s On

Liberty – are often shamefully rubbished as the ideas of

Western imperialist white privilege.

I am all in favour of protesting against real racists and

transphobes. But the most effective way to do this is to

expose and counter their bigoted ideas, not censor and

ban them. I’ve often debated religious fundamentalists

and homophobes. They’ve lost the argument; leaving

them weakened and discredited. Bad ideas are best

defeated by good ideas. NUS, please take note.

Many points come from this. White people can never be

discriminated against in PC theology unless it is done by

other white people. White colonialism is condemned (and

the British and European Archontic empires were a disgrace)

but what is forgotten is that millions of white working class

people were also oppressed and sent to war by the empire-

building El-lite, note El-lite, that doesn’t give a damn about

white people any more than it does about any other race or

skin tone. Ah, but we have breached the black and white no-

shades-of-grey mentality with that comment so we better

move on quickly and leave the PC brigade with their

bewildered expression. Observe white PC fanatics for only a

short while and you can see the disappointment that they

were not born into a minority. I have seen the same with

New Agers walking around in Hindu tunics sad for a lifetime

that they were not hatched in India instead of celebrating

the infinite awareness that we all are. A lot of white PC

fanaticism comes from white people programmed to feel

guilty about being white. They are seeking to impose this

guilt today in schools which have been conquered by the PC

program and woe betide any teacher that doesn’t conform

to it. I don’t feel guilty for being ‘white’. What? Why am I not

guilty for colonial conquest by white nations? Because I

didn’t fucking do it. We now have people who did not suffer

abusing people for something they did not do. Others with

white bodies did it and I find colonialism appalling, but some

of the worst tyranny and oppression is done by non-white

against non-white – people like Pol Pot in Cambodia along

with African, Arabian and Asian tyrants, and gangs that

intimidate and exploit their own communities the world over

like the Chinese Triads and MS-13 in the US founded by

illegal immigrants from El Salvador. White, black or blue

with orange dots is only a body that is not even ‘physical’

for goodness sake. Who cares what colour it is or where it

comes from? Behaviour and who you are is what matters to

me. Racism is like judging astronauts by their spacesuits

instead of what is inside and that’s clearly ridiculous.

‘Anti-racist’ racism PC by contrast is obsessed with

race which makes it for me a racist philosophy and belief

system. I look at behaviour, not race. They look at race, not

behaviour. This behavioural blind-spot means that minorities

can do no wrong to the PC mind. They are minorities and so

they are oppressed by white imperialists. No more debate is

necessary. We also have inherited victimhood where those

who did suffer are used to claim victim status for those in

the same colour bodies today who didn’t suffer and were

not oppressed by colonialism because they weren’t there

any more than I was. We need to deal with how things are

now and not continue to fight battles and live a victim

mentality welded to the illusory ‘past’. What has happened

is to learn from, not to live in. I find it nauseating to see

people who didn’t suffer exploiting those who did to secure

their political, racial and religious agendas of today. A

Philadelphia branch of Black Lives Matter banned white

supporters from a meeting because it was a ‘black only

space’. If it had been designated a ‘white only space’ that

would have been front-page news and outrage would have

ensued with a Twitter storm thrown in. I watched a TV

interview with Lisa Durden, a ‘social commentator’ and

Black Lives Matter supporter, defending ‘black only spaces’

and the racist nature of her comments was shocking. You

don’t end racism by reversing it. Black Texas professor

Tommy Curry says that ‘some white people may have to die’

for racism to be solved and true equality to be achieved. He

contends that white people can’t be educated out of their

racism. Oh, really? What about black racists, Asian racists,

Jewish racists and Islamic racists? Curry can’t see that

racism is not a colour but a state of mind or that he is

everything he rails against. The same applies to Jason

Osamede Okundaye who runs the Black and Minority Ethnic

Campaign at Cambridge University. He praised violent

protesters throwing petrol bombs and wrote that all white

people are racist: ‘... White middle class, white working

class, white men, white women, white gays, white children

they can ALL geddit.’ Student union extremists at the School

of Oriental and African Studies in London demanded that

white philosophers including Plato and Descartes be all but

dropped from the curriculum simply because they were

white. This was part of a wider campaign to ‘decolonise’ the

university and ‘address the structural and epistemological

legacy of colonialism’. White philosophers should be studied

only ‘if required’ and then only from a ‘critical standpoint’.

Effectively banning something purely on the grounds of race

has a name: Racism. But these ignorant torch-holders would

say we can’t be racist whatever we do because we are anti-

racist. Sir Anthony Seldon, vice-chancellor of Buckingham

University, said:

There is a real danger political correctness is getting out

of control. We need to understand the world as it was and

not to rewrite history as some might like it to have been.

Mate – rewriting history is the idea (see Orwell and

Nineteen-Eighty-Four). UK higher education minister Jo

Johnson wrote to education institutions warning that a

commitment to freedom of speech will have to be clearly

outlined in their governance structures. He said that access

should not be ‘denied to any individual or body on any

grounds connected with their beliefs or views, policy or

objective’. But Johnson was pushing against a heavy tide

and swell with 94 percent of higher education institutions

censoring what can be said on campus and 90 percent of

universities having freedom of speech restrictions. PC

programming which lives in a world of only black and white

can see no difference between genuine refugees fleeing war

that should be taken in, and opportunistic migrant young

men guilty of crime, intimidation and rape in countries such

as Sweden and Germany. They are not the same and should

not be fused together as if they were, but the PC mind

cannot conceive this obvious fact and seeks to silence such

debate. They scream ‘racist’ and ‘bigot’ to hide (mostly from

themselves) their own racism and bigotry. Appalling taxi

firm Uber tried to block a law in London which insisted that

its drivers prove their ability to communicate in English.

Uber claimed this was ‘indirect discrimination on grounds of

race and nationality’. No, it is because speaking the

language is an essential component in understanding where

people want to go. Isn’t seeking to use racial arguments to

stop something that is purely commercial a fair definition of

racism? No shades of grey, no balance, just black and white.

Serve the state – be a victim We live

increasingly in a victim society. Victimhood has become a

badge of honour through which self is defined.

‘Vulnerability’ is the new role-model and victimhood the new

heroism. Victims are the lifeblood of political correctness

and the more the better to empower its tyranny. PC’s

victims and support systems campaign for laws silencing

freedom of speech and opinion, without a care for the rights

of others on the basis that different opinions must by

definition be wrong if they differ from theirs. The only right

that has validity is I am right. There is no other show in

town. PC victimhood is another way of saying me, me, me –

it’s all about MEEEEEE! They walk around as if staring in

invisible mirrors that limit the world to their own reflection.

The last time I wrote me, me, me in this book was in relation

to the self-identity of Satanists and Sabbatean Frankists and

their desire for everyone to be as self-centric and self-

absorbed as they are. Me, me, me also takes the form of

what is termed ‘virtue signalling’ when people attack others

for being politically incorrect not because they believe in the

issue but to make themselves look caring and thoughtful.

Look at me and how caring and thoughtful I am (Fig 416).

Support systems for PC victims include those who may not

be in a minority themselves unless perhaps that they are a

woman. PC treats women as a minority, well, PC women,

anyway, and yet globally the ratio of men to women is

pretty close. Self-identity for victimhood and its support

systems is founded on their sense of political, moral and

spiritual purity. They ‘care’ and they insist that the world

must know and acknowledge how much they care. This is

more self-deception. Political correctness doesn’t ‘care’ in



the same way that all other tyrannies don’t care. It’s a

façade to secure what it seeks, but PC self-deceivers identify

with the façade and believe it to be real. Observe the hate

on the faces of those who protest against hate; the

intolerance of those who claim to promote tolerance; the

destruction of diversity by those who say we must have

more (Fig 417). French-born American historian Jacques

Barzun said: ‘Political correctness does not legislate

tolerance. It only organises hatred.’ Political correctness is

really a vehicle for hatred while pretending to be against it.

Even victims and supporters of victims are collectively

victims of the PC hoax perpetrated on them by the less-

than-one-percent they claim to despise. PC is an El-lite

mechanism for destroying their targets, dividing and ruling,

silencing exposure and hosing hate in all directions.

Mmmmm, lunch. Academics with long records of

achievement are forced out in the wake of the mildest of

jokes about women. Celebrities face ‘Twitter storms’ and

mass condemnation for the smallest of alleged PC

indiscretions which are now so voluminous you can’t keep

up with them (so don’t try). Celebrities and politicians fall to

their knees in penance in the face of Twitter storm abuse

underpinned by the PC mania of the PC media. The UK

Guardian is at the forefront – they have their own torch

supplier who does job lots. Media operations like the

Guardian, New York Times and MSNBC are propaganda arms

of the Provisional Progressives. High-profile people caught in

a Twitter storm are the most-prized targets of the PC fascists

because this says to millions looking on: See what happens

when you don’t do what we say (Fig 418).





F igure 4 1 6 : Virtue signalling with added vitriol.

F igure 4 1 7 : Protesting against ‘hate’. Mmmmm.

F igure 4 1 8 : In case there is a Twitter storm over this book I am just

getting my

reply prepared.

The PC Pyramid PC cancer has spread so far and deep

that there is actually a no-no category dubbed

‘microaggressions’. These are defined as ‘a subtle but

offensive comment or action directed at a minority or other

non-dominant group that is often unintentional or

unconsciously reinforces a stereotype.’ Here we go ... ‘a

minority or other non-dominant group’. Microaggressions in

the Bible of PC do not apply to everyone, only ‘a minority or

other non-dominant group’. The smaller the minority the

higher and more important you are in the PC hierarchy of

victimhood. A meme I saw on the Internet said: ‘Whoever is

declared the biggest victim gets to be the biggest bully.’

This certainly applies to Zionists who are a category way

above anyone else because their victimhood and censorship

are so well organised. White men are at the bottom of the

PC hierarchy of victimhood which goes like this: White men

can microaggress against white women and both can

microaggress against non-white people; non-white men can

microaggress

against

non-white

women

who

can

microaggress against gays and lesbians who can

microaggress

against

transgender

and

not

sure.

Transgender can’t currently microaggress against anyone

(except Zionists), but give them time. There will be a

smaller minority along soon and the left-hand thing is

always an option. How confusing it must have been for PC

warriors when Muslim parents at a Berlin preschool

protested that one of the male teachers was gay; or when a

Muslim school was exposed by a Swedish TV channel for

forcing girls to board their school bus through the back door

while boys use the front and also segregating them for

school prayers; or the news that Islamist ‘morality police’

are patrolling areas of Stockholm imposing extreme

limitations on the freedoms of women. PC zealots must have

had to sit in a darkened room sipping sweet tea and

breathing deeply while meditating on how this fitted into

their victim hierarchy. Looking the other way is their usual

response in such circumstances. An example of current

transgender dominance in the victim hierarchy saw two

women ejected from a homeless shelter in Canada because

they were told to share a room with a man who said he

identified as a female. One of them told a TV reporter: ‘He

wants to become a woman, I mean that is his choice but

when a man comes into a women’s shelter who still has a

penis and genitals, he has more rights than we do.’ This is

how the PC sexual/racial hierarchy works. Know your place. I

was referring to the PC hierarchy when I talked earlier about

Facebook and its censorship policy that takes down mild

criticism of mass immigration while allowing others to call

for white women to be hunted down and killed. We now

have good racism and bad racism. HelFem, a feminist group

in Finland, included a ‘sub-forum’ at an event in Helsinki

which banned white women. They called this the ‘No Whites

Allowed’ room. An ‘Only Whites Allowed’ room would have

the police turning up. Reverse racism is an epidemic and

underpinned by the campaign to make white people feel

shame and guilt for actions of other white people now long

gone. PC white people feel so ashamed for something they

didn’t do when they should really feel more ashamed for

what they are doing – now – like standing for this crap.

‘Positive discrimination’ is still discrimination. Positive and

discrimination should not be used in the same sentence any

more

than

CNN

and

journalism.

A

HelFem

spokeswoman/person or whatever they call themselves next

said: ‘Mainstream feminism is very white – sometimes

people use feminist messages simply for promoting their

own brand.’ Get used to this, white women, because this is

the future as the sub-labels continually subdivide into

smaller and smaller segments of ever-greater discriminatory

importance. Today’s victim of oppression is tomorrow’s

racist oppressor. The ‘No Whites Allowed’ room was said to

be a ‘safe space’ for non-whites; but safe from whom? White

feminists, presumably. None of this can be racist because as

HelFem said: ‘... organised racism requires structures and

institutions, and whereas people of colour never have

structures on their side, reverse racism simply cannot exist.’

These people are completely potty. Ann Heberlein, a lecturer

in ethics at Lund University in Sweden, has highlighted how

blond Swedes are harassed and sneered at in their own

country by ‘people with non-European appearances’. But,

hey, racism can only go one way, right? A report by the

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign even insisted that

a minority student ‘walking into or sitting in’ a room full of

white people is a microaggression by the white people and a

student ‘diversity’ officer at a London university famously

banned white people and men from an event promoting

equality. Golden rule of political correctness: no one can

microaggress against white men. They are fair game no

matter what and have no rights under PC law unless

something tags them into another PC category. Where all

this is going was reported in a Huffington Post headline in

South Africa: ‘Could It Be Time To Deny White Men The

Franchise?’ This call to remove voting rights for white men

was penned by a Shelley Garland, an ‘activist and feminist’

who says she is ‘working on ways to smash the patriarchy’

(and replace it with a matriarchy). One extreme replacing

another extreme = the same extreme under another name.

Well done, you. She is also ‘completing an MA degree in

philosophy’. Cool, can’t wait. Here’s a taste of her

‘philosophy’:

Some of the biggest blows to the progressive cause in the

past year have often been due to the votes of white men.

If white men were not allowed to vote, it is unlikely that

the United Kingdom would be leaving the European Union,

it is unlikely that Donald Trump would now be the

President of the United States, and it is unlikely that the

Democratic Alliance would now be governing four of South



Africa’s biggest cities.

If white men no longer had the vote, the progressive

cause would be strengthened. It would not be necessary

to deny white men indefinitely – the denial of the vote to

white men for 20 years (just less than a generation) would

go some way to seeing a decline in the influence of

reactionary and neo-liberal ideology in the world. The

influence of reckless white males were one of the primary

reasons that led to the Great Recession which began in

2008. This would also strike a blow against toxic white

masculinity, one that is long needed.

F igure 4 1 9 : What choice is there for non-transgender people?

Later in the article she speaks of up to 30 years for her

denial of voting rights. The victim hierarchy can also be

seen in pressure for transgender ‘men’ and ‘women’ to be

able to use toilets on the basis of what they feel they are

rather than their body-type and this is being introduced in

schools for even young children (Fig 419). To deny this

would be discrimination, apparently, and feelings of men

and women who don’t want people who look like the

opposite sex walking into their toilets is never considered by

PC insanity, nor is how this could be abused by those who

are not transgender but claim that excuse. Political

correctness is like a card game with each level of the

hierarchy trumping another based on sexuality and race.

Lest we forget:

If the nucleus were the size of a peanut, the atom would

be about the size of a baseball stadium. If we lost all the

dead space inside our atoms, we would each be able to fit

into a particle of dust, and the entire human race would fit

into the volume of a sugar cube.

That should be posted as a reminder on every PC wall and

Zionist centre of censorship where they are obsessed with

race and their labels for that ‘particle of dust’. We’ll need

lots of copies then. Politically incorrect ‘microaggressions’

don’t even have to be intentional to incur the wrath of PC

storm troopers. Malice aforethought is not required.

Unintentionally upsetting the professionally upset is all that

it takes. For example, Ruth Starkman (Starkperson, surely?),

a professor at Stanford University, claims that saying

homework was easy is a microaggression against those that

didn’t find it easy. Silence would seem to be the only way

not to microaggress against somebody, but maybe noise will

find that discriminatory. There is a website called

microaggressions.com where people post their traumatic experiences. Here are some examples of political

correctness at this micro-level of madness:

So what do you guys speak in Japan – Asian?

Wow, that must have been horrific.

-------------------

When I gave a speech about racism the emcee introduced

me as ‘Jaime Garcia’. My name is Jaime Rodriguez, not all

Latinos have the last name Garcia.

No, but a lot are called Rodriguez. That ‘emcee’, eh, what

a racist.

-------------------

My husband and I had just moved to Dallas. We went for a

walk in a historic shopping district where we came upon a

man and his son playing guitars. They sounded really

good so we put a $5 bill in their tip jar. Almost

immediately, the son pipes up, ‘I thought black people

only liked rap music!’ The father laughed nervously and

said his son was just joking. I wanted to snatch my $5 bill

back, but we just walked away.

Okay, sense of humour bypass. Next ...

-------------------

I am a straight, childfree female. My female friends are

talking about how many kids they want. When it’s my

turn, I tell them I want no kids at all. There’s a long,

awkward silence during which time they stare at me like

I’d flown down from the moon. Then one of the girls says,

‘Well, you’re one of those ‘weird’ ones, then’, implying

that I’m a lesbian because I don’t want children.

Yes, I understand. I told someone that I lived alone. ‘Oh,

really?’ he replied, implying that I must be gay.

-------------------

I’m in a restaurant with my husband and child. We’re

obviously a family. The waiter is taking our order. ‘For you,

Sir’ to my husband. ‘For you, Miss?’ to me. Why does my

husband consistently get the honorific title, but I get only

the diminutive title. It happens to us at restaurants

throughout my northern city. If I get a ‘Miss’, then he

should get a ‘Mr.’ If he gets a ‘Sir’, then I should get a

‘Ma’am’ or ‘For the lady?’ Actually, I’d prefer ‘Doctor’.

I’d prefer you grew up.

-------------------

A microaggression I face on a daily basis is the lack of

respect for my gender. People do not bother to ask about

my pronouns, and assume that I am cisgendered [identify

your sex with what your body looks like]. I am constantly

called ma’am, miss, she/her, because my body is feminine

shaped, even when I express more masculine, people try

to push me into the box of cisgendered female, even

though I am not. I must jump through many hoops to have

my pronouns, gender, and honorifics respected in most

settings.

I look like a woman and so people don’t ask me if I am a

man. That’s a hanging offence, surely?

-------------------

I cannot comprehend the staggering self-centric myopia

that it takes to see the world and human interaction in such

terms which destroy relaxed, open and spontaneous

discourse with the constant watch-your-words mental

gymnastics necessary not to offend childlike people. The

point is that they want to be offended to feed their victim

self-identity. Perceived victims and perceived victimisation

need each other and feed off each other – another standing

wave. Microaggressions are divide and rule at the micro-

level. Scripps College, a ‘liberal arts women’s college’

outside Los Angeles, has deemed that non-white students

should demand financial compensation from white students

for the ‘emotional labour’ of having to deal with

‘microaggressions’. They are encouraged to charge white

students for explaining why they are guilty of

microaggressions – ‘I don’t like what you have said and so

hand over some dosh.’ A sane person would laugh to

confirm their sanity, but these people are not sane and take

this deadly seriously. A Harvard study even suggested that

microaggressions could make people die earlier. Well, at

least they would die rich if they went to Scripps. Harvard’s

‘Voices of [destroying] Diversity’ concluded that ‘the

cumulative burden of a lifetime of microaggressions can

theoretically contribute to diminished mortality [they mean

lifespan], augmented morbidity, and flattened confidence.’

The only threat to life that I can see with microaggressions

is that anyone with a mind of their own might lose the will to

live.

Madness archive You can no longer make up the

lunacy of political correctness. Anything you can invent will

be bettered in terms of extremism by what is actually

happening. Even the term political correctness has been

condemned as politically incorrect and offensive at the

University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. They say it implies that

people are being too ‘sensitive.’ They are, but political

correctness is never the bedfellow of fact, truth and the

patently obvious. Calling a thin person ‘skinny’ is apparently

an act of verbal ‘violence’ along with ‘Get over it’. The

context of what they are being told to get over does not

appear to have been considered. Get over anything is more

than enough. Sweden’s biggest union introduced a hotline

for women to report ‘mansplaining’ – ‘when a man explains

something to a woman without being asked, particularly

something which she might already know more about than

the man’. A hotline? For ‘mansplaining’? How about women

just tell the man that they know what he is telling them and

they would appreciate it if he did not patronise them again?

People are becoming so used to madness they think it’s

sanity. We are witnessing the normalisation of insanity.

Facebook took down the page of an English pub called the

Black Cock Inn for the ‘racist and offensive name’ that it’s

had since 1840 (Fig 420). Carleton University in Canada

removed scales from the campus fitness centre to protect

people with a special sensitivity to learning their weight.

College athletics manager Bruce Marshall said scales were

ditched because it was believed that only bad things come

from monitoring weight. Those that might want to do so are

irrelevant, but I have another solution for those who are

sensitive to learning their weight – don’t stand on the

friggin’ scales. There you go, all sorted. A ‘Bias-Free

Language Guide’ used by the University of New Hampshire

insists that the term ‘American’ is offensive and should be

avoided as it doesn’t recognise South America, or,

presumably, Central America. The content of the ‘guide’ was

so insane the university apparently dropped it, but out it will

come again when the dive by political correctness into yet

further depths of madness reaches the point where even

that is official policy. Cardiff Metropolitan University in Wales

has threatened disciplinary action for those using terms

including mankind, man-made, manpower, man the desk,

best man for the job, forefathers, housewife, Christian name

instead of forename, Mrs and Miss, waitress and

headmaster or headmistress even if they are used to

describe men and women. Students and staff are advised to

use ‘samesex’ and ‘othersex’ instead of homosexual and

heterosexual and ‘people with disability’ rather than

disabled. What an effect this must have on spontaneous

open discourse if you are constantly filtering every word and

phrase before you speak. The university say they are

complying with the Equality Act and gendered words could

be considered discriminatory. They say they are promoting

an atmosphere in which all students and staff ‘feel valued’

and so totally missing the point that true self-value comes

from within. We have universities threatening to mark down

students in exams for ‘failure to use gender-sensitive

language’. This has been described as ‘linguistic policing’

and ‘a one-way ticket to absurdity’ which is exactly what it

is. Frank Furedi, emeritus professor of sociology at Kent



University

in

the

UK,

said:

F igure 4 2 0 : The Black Cock Inn was banned for being named in the

19th

century after a black cock as in chicken.

Usually such threats are implicit rather than spelt out ...

This linguistic policing is used as a coercive tool to impose

a conformist outlook. The alternative is to pay a penalty of

being marked down.

Furedi appeared shortly after he said that on the Richie

Allen radio show on Davidicke.com. He was extremely impressive and very courageous given his academic

background in his takedown of political correctness and its

impact on universities and wider society: ‘What we are

seeing here is more or less an attempt to create a moral

authority, a new cultural oligarchy that has the right to

determine what is said and what isn’t said.’ We are dealing

with cultural and psychological fascism imposed by the

same people that go on ‘antifascist’ protest marches. Furedi

said that the obsession with diversity can devalue the

majority culture. This is not to say that minority cultures

should not be valued but that majority cultures should have

the same respect. This is not happening because the whole

thing has been designed to destroy the majority culture for

reasons I will be explaining. Furedi went on: ‘In practice the

theory of diversity becomes a way of devaluing the cultural

dynamic and cultural content of national cultures.’ He has

written a first-class book on the subject, What’s Happened

To The University? – A sociological exploration of its

infantilisation. And infantilisation is the word. An example of

‘diversity’ failing to include a majority culture is provided by

Victoria Kawesa from Uganda who is Sweden’s first black

political party leader as a head of the Feminist Initiative also

known as FI or Fucking Insane. The party wants open border

immigration and Ms Kawesa called for an end to deporting

foreign criminals, including murderers and rapists, because

white Swedes are not deported when they do the same. No,

don’t worry it’s not you. That is as crazy as it sounds. Er,

where would ‘white Swedes’ be deported to, pray? But PC

minds, by their very nature, do not do logic. In 2016 when I

was touring Australia I saw a report of a school that had

banned cheering and applause in case it upset those

‘sensitive to noise’. You will gather by now that, no, this not

a joke either. If only. Elanora Heights School in Sydney ruled

that instead of cheering and applause ‘the students are free

to punch the air, pull excited faces and wriggle about on the

spot’.

Bias beyond words I could go on for page after page

with examples of how extreme all this has become, but

there is once again method in the madness which literally

involves replacing sanity with madness. The Williams

Institute, an American think tank, estimated in 2016 that

transgender people represent only 0.6 percent of adults in

the United States or around 1.4 million out of a US

population of 326 million. The number has significantly

increased in recent years with all the propaganda to

encourage and pressure people, especially the young, to

question their gender identity when they had never felt the

need to do so before. The highest ratio of transgender

people in the US were found to be in the District of Columbia

dominated by Washington DC. Also up there was California,

the holy grail of political correctness where the Frankfurt

School located. It is not a coincidence that Washington DC

and California are at the forefront of transgender

propaganda designed to confuse gender identity. This is not

to say that people’s gender choice shouldn’t be respected

within the bounds of balance and of course that is right.

How people chose to see themselves is purely their own

business, but why do they have to make it my business?

Respecting those who genuinely choose a transgender

identity is not what political correctness is all about. The

mind-scam is to instil gender confusion in those that would

not otherwise be confused and there is a very clear and

serious reason for why this is being done which I will be

addressing. Contrast transgender numbers and ratio with

the extraordinary focus on transgender issues which arrived

out of nowhere and was suddenly everywhere. This is

virtually always confirmation of a calculated and long-

planned El-lite agenda having the button pressed. Changing

toilet rules, banning ‘man and woman’, ‘mum and dad’, ‘girl’

and ‘boy’ and so much more has been justified by

advancing the interests of well under one percent of the US

population. A similar ratio or less will likely to be found all

over the world. Transport announcers in London have been

banned from using terms such as ‘ladies and gentlemen’ to

avoid offending transgender passengers. They must say

‘good morning, everyone’ and they are being trained in the

use of ‘gender-neutral’ language (Newspeak). Bernard Reed,

from the Gender Identity Research and Education Society,

said that using words ‘inappropriately’ can cause ‘great

distress’. Only if you allow it to, mate. Can I call you, mate?

Reed went on: ‘A deep voice does not always indicate that

the caller is a man, or a high voice that the caller is a

woman.’ No, but it gives you a bit of a clue and the people

on the other end just want to tell you when your train

leaves, not to have to pre-scan their mind every time to

avoid upsetting the professionally upsettable. Sadiq Khan,

the first Muslim Mayor of London and the personification of

‘progressive’, welcomed the word bans. He would never

miss the chance for such virtue-signalling.

Ridiculous rules and word bans for 99.4 percent of the

population justified by the need not to upset 0.6 percent?

Does anyone really believe that this is because the El-lite

which treats the entirety of non-El-lite humanity with such

callous distain has such a heartfelt desire to help

transgender people? Do transgenders even believe that if

they dispassionately look at the evidence? So what’s going

on? We’ll see later. Another of the fast-increasing examples

of calculated craziness is the teachers’ union in New South

Wales, Australia, which advised teachers not to use the

terms ‘mum’ or ‘dad’ and to encourage young boys to dress

up as girls in new education guidelines. The guidelines for

‘non-gender-specific free play’ (it’s not free if you pressure

them to do it) are part of the explosion of political

correctness in Australian schools matched in North America

and Europe to confuse gender identity in the young. Get the

kids and you get the adults they will become. Educate and

Celebrate, a UK Government-funded organisation, gives

lessons on ‘gender diversity’ in schools. Children as young

as seven are told to stop using the terms ‘boys’, ‘girls’,

‘ladies’ and ‘gentlemen’ to avoid discrimination against

transgender pupils even though the enormous majority of

classrooms won’t have any. Monumental overkill exposes

the real agenda. Children are encouraged to use terms such

as ‘cisgender’, ‘panromantic’, intersex and ‘genderqueer’.

An Educate and Celebrate ‘guidebook’, Can I Tell You About

Gender Diversity?, includes the fictional story of a 12-year-

old given hormone blockers to ‘transition’ from female to

male and stop the onset of puberty. The BBC ran a drama

for children as young as six featuring a schoolboy taking

sex-change drugs to become a girl (Fig 421). Critics said the

programme was leaving children ‘utterly confused’ and it

was supposed to. One mother said her daughter had

questioned her gender identity after watching the show

when she never had before. The BBC said the programme

(programming) was ‘reflecting true life’. Nonsense. It was

reflecting an agenda to confuse young children about their

sexuality as early as possible. One transgender mother in

Canada, who has a moustache and a beard, has sought to

register her baby with a ‘non-gendered’ birth certificate. She

said: ‘When I was born, doctors looked at my genitals and

made assumptions about who I would be ... Those

assumptions were incorrect, and I ended up having to do a

lot of adjustments since then’. Maybe, but they were rather

understandable assumptions. I suspect that the child will be

facing a lot of adjustments itself to overcome totally

unnecessary confusion purely to serve his/her mother’s

personal obsessions. My point is not that those who

naturally feel they are in the wrong sexual body should not



be respected and supported, but that children and young

people should not be systematically encouraged and

manipulated to question their gender when they were not

before and a raft of words and terms should not be deleted

for the entire population to accommodate the supposed

grammatical sensibilities of a tiny few. Mr? Miss? Mrs? Ms?

These things only matter if we make them matter and that

is a choice.

F igure 4 2 1 : What gender are you, kids? Really? Are you sure?

Dutch MPs voted in 2017 to punish schools that don’t

have ‘LGBT awareness’ on the curriculum and a UK

government-backed survey offered children from the age of

13 a choice of 25 different gender terms to describe

themselves including ‘bi-gender’, ‘tri-gender’, ‘demi-boys’,

‘demi-girls’, ‘trans-girls’, ‘trans-boys’ and ‘gender fluid’. An

American College of Paediatricians report described as child

abuse the widespread indoctrination of children into

believing they can pick their sex. They condemned reckless,

profit-driven doctors prescribing sex-change hormones to 12

year olds (but this is not only driven by profit and goes

much, much deeper as we shall see). More than 800

children in the UK as young as ten are being given sex-

change drugs and you can bet this figure is destined to soar.

What is that doing to their long-term health alone? The

British government has announced plans to make legally

changing sex as quick and simple as making a statutory

declaration. Canadian progressives led by Ontario Premier

Kathleen Wynne passed what was called the Totalitarian Bill

89 to give more power to the state to steal children from

families that oppose the ‘LGBTQI and gender ideology

agenda’ and in effect ban couples with those views from

fostering or adopting children. Wynne is the first woman

premier of Ontario and the first openly gay head of

government in Canada. Tanya Allen, president of Parents As

First Educators, said: ‘The Kathleen Wynne Liberals

[progressives] have for years been pursuing their anti-

parent and anti-family agenda and Bill 89 is the latest

instalment.’ Wynne will still go to bed at night believing she

is a liberal who believes in freedom such is progressive self-

deceit. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a

bill in 2007 banning anything in state schools that ‘could be

interpreted as negative toward homosexuality, bisexuality

and other alternative lifestyle choices’. This is a great

example of how the scam is being played. People might say

okay, who can argue with that? But ‘interpreted’ is the

crucial word. Interpreted by whom? Will it be someone with

intelligence and a sense of balance and proportion or a PC

idiot? A PC idiot, of course, and on that basis ‘mum’, dad’,

‘man’, ‘woman’, husband’, ‘wife’, ‘boy’, ‘girl’ are interpreted

as ‘negative towards homosexuality, bisexuality and other

alternative lifestyle choices’. Laws targeting ‘anti-social

behaviour’ can also be interpreted to stop a whole raft of

activities that are not actually anti-social but nonconformist.

Nikola Tesla’s view was that ‘anti-social behaviour is a trait

of intelligence in a world full of conformists’. These are a

small selection of PC ‘interpretations’ from American

universities to give you a feel for what is happening:

• Kansas University’s student senate voted to ban gender-

specific pronouns such as ‘his/her’ from its rules and

regulations document because they’re microaggressions

against the students who don’t use them.

• North Carolina State University defended a lecturer’s

right to dock students’ grades for using ‘he’ or ‘him’ to

refer to both men and women and for using the word

‘mankind’ instead of ‘humankind’.

• A University of Washington professor tried to instigate a

policy punishing her students for using the words ‘male’

and ‘female’.

• Scripps College declared that using the wrong pronoun

to refer to someone was ‘institutionalized violence’, and

gave students the option to request that teachers use no

pronouns at all to refer to them because that too can be a

microaggression.

• University of Pittsburgh warned its faculty and

professors that even after a student has told them which

pre-fix he or she prefers the students might change

genders over time [so presumably they will tell them the

new one, then??].

There are demands to change breast cancer to chest

cancer to avoid ‘upsetting’ transgender people and the

British Medical Association (BMA) urged doctors to avoid

similar upset by changing ‘pregnant women’ and ‘expectant

mothers’ to ‘pregnant people’. The Guide To Effective

Communication: Inclusive Language In The Workplace says:

‘A large majority of people that have been pregnant or have

given birth identify as women.’ Blimey, top marks for

observation. But there’s more: ‘We can include intersex men

and trans men who may get pregnant by saying ‘pregnant

people’ instead of ‘expectant mothers’. Hold on. Pregnant

men? Britain’s allegedly first ‘pregnant man’ was revealed

in 2017 although it turned out he had been beaten to it.

Hayden Cross, who was 20, was born a girl but became

legally male and started hormone treatment before putting

this on hold to have a baby thanks to a sperm donor found

on Facebook. When the child was born he said he planned to

complete the ‘transition process’ which includes removing

his breasts and ovaries. They will want to give wombs next

to men who say they are women. Oh, sorry, they already

are. Some doctors are calling for transsexuals with male

bodies to be given wombs so they can give birth to their

own children. Consultant gynaecologist Dr Arianna D’Angelo

of the Wales Fertility Institute said this was fine from an

‘ethical point of view’ and Dr Francoise Shelfield, a clinical

lecturer in obstetrics and gynaecology at University College

London, agreed: ‘If we are saying we should have equality ...

I do not see why not.’ Dr Amel Alghrani, director of Liverpool

University’s Health Law and Regulation Unit, says that once

women are offered womb transplants ‘questions will arise as

to whether this should be publicly funded’ for trans-women

too. She says this would ‘revolutionise reproduction’ and

could lead others to demand transplants, including straight

men ‘allowing for couples to jointly share the reproductive

burdens and joys of pregnancy’. She adds that ‘homosexual

couples may also wish to procreate in this fashion, while

single men may opt for it to avoid surrogacy.’ Excuse me a

moment, I am just going to check my sanity ... hold on ...

just another minute ... nearly there ... no, it’s okay, I’m fine.

The world is mad, not me. Phew.

A student newspaper at the University of California-Los

Angeles stressed that it was not being transphobic by

linking menstruation and tampons to women: ... ‘not all

individuals who menstruate identify as women and ... not all

individuals who identify as women menstruate.’ If you say

so. A Washington college declared that its ‘non-

discrimination policy’ meant they could not stop a

transgender man from walking naked among girls as young

as six in a women’s locker room. A mother reported the man

for being naked in front of her 17-year-old daughter and a

female swimming coach ordered him to leave and called the

police after finding him naked in a women’s sauna. The

coach later apologised – apologised – when she was told the

man was transgender. She did at least point out that girls of

six years of age weren’t used to seeing male genitals, but,

hey, sorry anyway. Police said that the ‘criminal law is very

vague in this area’ and the man himself told a TV station

that he felt discriminated against: ‘This is not 1959 Alabama

– we don’t call police for drinking from the wrong water

fountain.’ No, but a naked man among six-year-old girls

might just warrant a quick ring. What about discrimination

against young girls who don’t want to be faced with a male

dick (in every sense) in their changing room? They don’t

count because they are part of a majority in this situation.

Transgender overrules young girls every time in the PC

hierarchy of victimhood. A transgender student with a man’s

body got into a girl’s locker room by saying he was a woman

and began to sexually harass the genuine females.

Harassment included ‘twerking’ – ‘a dance move involving

thrusting hip movements and a low, squatting stance’. Stop

complaining. He’s in a man’s body but claims to be a

woman so what’s the problem? Move along now,

everything’s fine. Sexually harassed girls should get over it.

Oops, ‘get over it’ isn’t allowed, is it?

It’s my culture – keep off Political correctness is

specifically designed to dismantle every cohesive pillar of

human society and is doing just that. The population is so at

war with itself on endless fronts that they never see the

same strings controlling them all. We now have the PC crime

of ‘cultural appropriation’ which is when those of one culture

wear clothes and symbols and eat food of another culture

which they don’t ‘own’. Alleged ownership of culture on the

basis that it can only be ‘franchised’ out by those of that

culture draws still more demarcation lines between cultural

differences and provides more potential for divide and rule

and label consciousness. Canada’s University of Ottawa

cancelled free yoga classes on the grounds that they were

‘cultural appropriation’ and that yoga was connected to

‘cultural genocide’. I thought yoga just took people into a

calm space where they didn’t kick the crap out of each

other. But, no. ... apparently yoga started in India and it is a

breach of cultural copyright if you use the name anywhere

and you are not Indian. Okay, so Indian people should not

play football or cricket then? The yoga class was reinstated

after it was renamed ‘mindful stretching’. Maybe Indian

footballers and cricketers could rename their sport kickball

and hitball? Hoop skirts were banned by the University of

Georgia for being racist, and Quinnipiac University dropped

a fundraiser for foster children after a student complained

that putting maracas on a publicity poster was racist.

Wearing sombreros is cultural racism according to these

children and a case of ‘ethnic stereotyping’. On one

occasion when sombreros were worn at a tequila-themed

student birthday party a student newspaper said this

‘ignited campus-wide tensions, frustration and pain’. What,

because of wearing sombreros or the reaction to wearing

sombreros? It’s got to be the second, surely. The first would

be a form of mental illness. Go to Mexico tourist centres and

what are the locals selling to the red-faced holidaymakers ...

sombreros. Even worse and extremely sinister was that the

students involved were ordered to partake in a re-education

course by a faculty member, attend ‘Active Bystander

training’ and write a letter reflecting on their experiences. I

would have had only one reflection – stick it up your arse.

An ‘Around the World in 80 Days’ party at Pembroke College

at Cambridge University was cancelled for fear of causing

offence by the clothes people might wear to symbolise the

trip. Wearing costumes that are not of your culture is now

considered racist, but then what isn’t? Cambridge sounds

like a university to stay well clear of unless you are pursuing

a first-class degree in pottiness. Students from the African

Society there boycotted an African-themed dinner based on

the Lion King because non-African organisers were guilty of

cultural appropriation and did not ask them to determine

the menu and terms of cultural exchange.

Fault-lines of divide and rule are breeding like rabbits if

that is not rabbitical stereotyping. Please note that I said

rabbitical and not rabbinical and so it can’t be ‘antiSemitic’.

Although if a rabbit is owned by a rabbi ... Mmmm ... better

play it safe and get my apology in early. No, second

thoughts, fuck it. Culture is being divided from culture (we

are all one consciousness by the way) and women are being

divided from men by the feminazi extremists who are not

driven by the laudable desire for equality but by their hatred

of men (a symptom of hatred of self). At the other polarity,

and just as outrageous, many men still treat women as an

inferior species, as sexual objects (as do some women with

men) and think its fine for a woman to be paid less than a

man for doing the same job. State and religious involvement

in relationships through marriage law and divorce courts are

also there to drive apart the sexes and not to bring them

together as people believe them to be. Massive court

awards and maintenance payments to women by men

which bear no resemblance to fairness are making men now

fear women for what they could do and the same is true in

divorce of restricted male access to children. Working

women are also now being hit with big divorce pay-outs

when they are the main breadwinner. Nothing drives people

apart more than fear. This is not a resentful male

complaining. I have nothing to complain about with regard

to any of this. I am pointing out how the mind-scam works in

ways that are not at first obvious. Women and men are

being divided from each other and collectively from the

endless subdivisions of genders manipulated to this very

end. Divisions are appearing everywhere on the basis of

sex, race, religion, income bracket, the list goes on and on,

and this has all been planned. White is divided from non-

white amid racism on both sides – emphasis on both. The

idea that only white people can be racist is destroyed by

daily experience. I hear Indian people who support the

stunningly racist caste system complaining about racism

against themselves. Talk about self-deluded hypocrisy.

Religion is divided against religion, political view against

political view, young against old, haves against have nots.

Look at it – and it is all being made to happen. Instead of

sharing, mutual respect, fairness and justice (expanded

awareness) we see each divided faction seeking to seize

power for itself (myopic awareness). Yet these factions are

only labels for the same Archontic Web. Do you want a

Patriarchy or a Matriarchy? It doesn’t matter either way

because both are still the same hierarchy of Archontic rule.

Trigger warning – no trigger warnings I don’t

use words like insanity and madness as metaphors with

political correctness. I use them literally in terms of ‘a

severely distorted state of mind’ and ‘extreme folly and

unreasonableness’. PC vocabulary includes classic words

from government/military mind control programmes that I

described earlier and the most obvious are ‘trigger’ and

‘triggering’. Trauma-based mind control involves the

creation of compartments in the mind known as alters which

are activated by a trigger – a word, phrase, sound or

whatever has been encoded – to instigate their programmed

behaviour in a process called triggering. Here we have an

aspect of political correctness based on the concept of

triggers. Is that a coincidence? No way. Triggers in the PC

sense are any text, comment, opinion or discussion that

someone might find upsetting. This upset-obsession is a

sobering thought when almost everything will upset

somebody. In an attempt to protect everyone from

everything has come the ‘trigger warning’. These have been

introduced ‘to prevent unaware encountering of certain

materials or subjects for the benefit of people who have an

extremely strong and damaging emotional response (for

example, post-traumatic flashbacks or urges to harm

themselves) to such topics’. Having these responses –

invariably being manipulated to have them – is referred to

as ‘being triggered’. When alters are opened in

government/military mind control the person is referred to

as ‘being triggered’. The public in general and students in

particular in their confined and isolated environment are

being subjected to mass mind control. I am describing the

many ways this is done and never more powerfully today

than in schools, colleges and universities. So-called trigger-

warnings are now commonplace in academic courses when

students are warned that they might be upset by something

soon to be mentioned or discussed. I have been with people

subjected to government mind control and trauma when

something has happened that triggers memories of

unspeakable abuse. Their emotional reactions can be

anything from very unpleasant to shocking. Triggering is

real. But we are dealing here with students and not a

multitude of survivors from MKUltra. When anything is this

way-over-the-top, alarm bells should ring. How about the

University of Glasgow in Scotland adding trigger warnings

for theology students to alert them to upcoming images and

discussion of the crucifixion so they can leave if they choose

to?

‘Morning Vicar – nice sermon but why did you stop before

Jesus was crucified?’

‘He was? I missed that bit. There was a trigger warning.’

Veterinary students are given trigger warnings about

aspects of their work, as are those studying ‘contemporary

society’ which involves discussing illness and violence.

Archaeology students at Scotland’s Stirling University are

warned about any ‘well-preserved archaeological body from

an archaeological context’ in case they find it ‘a bit

gruesome’. Forensic science students at Strathclyde

University in Glasgow receive a verbal warning before

lectures which may include images involving blood patterns,

crime scenes and dead bodies. They are students of forensic

science – what the heck did they think they would see and

work with during any subsequent career, and the same with

veterinary and archaeological students (Fig 422). Some

Harvard students even suggested that rape law should not

be taught to law students. A statement from Glasgow

University said: ‘We have an absolute duty of care to all of

our students and where it is felt course material may cause

potential upset or concern warnings may be given.’ Well,

how come this has only happened on anything close to this

scale relatively recently? How did I and previous generations

manage to survive perfectly well without trigger warnings

and safe spaces? Kent University professor Frank Furedi

rightly calls this phenomenon the therapy culture,

therapeutic censorship and the medicalisation of reading.

Trigger warning policy for a gender studies course at Stirling

University reads: ‘We cannot anticipate or exclude the

possibility that you may encounter material which is

triggering and we urge that you take all necessary

precautions to look after yourself in and around the

programme.’ A student commenting on the removal of

scales at that Canadian university said: ‘Scales are very

triggering.’ This obsession with protecting students from all

potential negativity and upset is creating what I call

Generation Jelly for whom a breakdown is a badge of honour

(Fig 423). This has caused PC students to be dubbed

‘snowflakes’. I repeat my earlier incredulity and admiration

for those balanced and intelligent students who are seeking

to learn and stay sane among this insanity. Students at an

American college said they had been ‘literally traumatised’

by seeing the words ‘Trump 2016’ written in chalk on the

sidewalk. How are they ever going to deal with the

challenges that life brings? They aren’t and so they will give

their power to the Big Brother state to protect them as it has

done throughout their formative ‘safe space’ years. The

psychological background behind all this is the manipulation

of children and adults to perceive the state and authority as

their parents. People even talk of the ‘nanny state’. The

stealing of children from loving parents by the state is an

expression of this along with the constant deletion of

parental rights and influence. I’m a victim. I’m insecure. I’m

in danger. The state told me I am and I look to the state to

protect me from how it told me to feel. Add in the extreme

‘health and safety’ risk assessment laws that stop children

and adults doing activities that my generation took for

granted and we have a pattern of programmed ‘protection’

to develop mollycoddled people with mollycoddled minds

who perceive the state as mum and dad and everything else

as dangerous and a possible trigger. A state of such

perpetual fear of survival focuses attention and reaction

within the reptilian brain. From the same mindset comes the

perception that anyone challenging the state is attacking

their mum and dad. A newspaper report said that ITV, one of

the main UK television channels, is coaching its managers to

cope with the ‘Millennial generation’ (or Generation Y) born

in the 1980s and 1990s. They are considered to have a

greater ‘sense of entitlement’ and be ‘less self-aware’.

Given the background that I am exposing here that’s hardly

surprising and it starts long before college and university

when tree-climbing is banned and school sports days are

cancelled because the grass is damp. The Chartered

Management Institute said this Millennial age group lacked



‘decision-making skills’. How could this not be the case

when they are denied throughout their academic years the

experience of making their own decisions? They are living in

a perceptual straitjacket and the situation has become even

more extreme with those following Generation Y. This is the

mentality and emotional state that is going to be running

the world soon, in the lower levels anyway. Accountants firm

Deloitte predict that Millennials will constitute up to 75 per

cent of the workforce by 2025. Some will be exceptional and

brilliant on the grounds that if you can come through this

academic mind program with your sanity intact and see

through the PC bullshit you must have an awakened

consciousness; but how are PC groupies going to cope as

they look at the world through their fingers while ducking

behind the sofa? Schools, colleges and universities are mind

control laboratories and what is found to work is then

imposed on wider society. I saw that a London theatre is

now issuing trigger warnings for its audiences in case

something in a play might upset them. Political correctness

also encourages narcissism and attention seeking.

Narcissism in this sense comes from being a bigger victim

than anyone else (see Zionist narcissism) and attracting

attention because you have been ‘triggered’ with people

rushing to your emotional aid. ‘Quick – Ethel’s been

triggered when someone said Trump. Oh, there, there ...

poor Ethel.’ What can you say when a display about

microaggressions triggered Asian students who complained

that the safe space was making them feel unsafe? The

organisers

issued

an

apology:



F igure 4 2 2 : Yes, it is now that silly.

F igure 4 2 3 : They will be running the world soon on behalf of the

force that has

turned them to jelly.

We would like to acknowledge and apologize to the Asian

students on campus who were triggered or hurt by the

content of the microaggressions in our installation. We

understand and empathize with the effect that this

installation could have without the context of the

explanation provided on our Tumblr.

Oh, grow the fuck up and try living in Gaza or Syria.

The safe space mindset is another standing wave

oscillating on the spot and so continually decoding reality in



the same way like a DVD in freeze frame mode. Safe space

protection from any other view and Internet algorithms

offering only confirmations to surfing-recorded belief

systems mean that the standing wave oscillation is never

subjected to other possibilities (frequencies) that could

challenge solidified perception. How are you going to evolve

mentally and emotionally if all that you ever see and hear is

what you have already been programmed to think?

Generation

Ritalin

A

foundation

of

government/military mind control networks is the copious

use of mind-altering drugs and you would expect to find the

same in the mind laboratories of the education system. I

have highlighted in other books the exploding use of drugs

for children from the earliest age when any natural or

temporary behaviour response is met with a bottle of pills.

We are looking at the most drugged generations in human

history and therefore the most perception-controlled (Fig

424). One study estimated that 1 in 13 American children

take some form of psychiatric drug and tens of millions

worldwide with the number constantly rising. A report on

the

Naturalnews

website

said:

F igure 4 2 4 : Generation Drugged. See also Generation Jelly (the

two are

connected).

An increasing number of children in America are being

labeled, diagnosed and branded. Unique personalities are

being scolded and molded by drugs to adapt childhood

behavior into societal norms. Children have become like

sculptures, motionless, lifeless, as psychiatric drugs chisel

away at their natural state of wellbeing.

The emotional and behavioral differences among children

are yoked into compliance, to conformity. A child’s

struggles aren’t listened to, aren’t understood. Their

differences, behavior and problems are stamped into their

mind as if they are a mental illness. Psychiatric drugs are

driven down the throats of young people, as

pharmaceutical companies expand their controlling

influence.

‘Mental conditions’ like ADHD or Attention deficit

hyperactivity disorder are invented out of thin air with no

supporting evidence and new drugs released by the Big

Pharma cartel to spread mayhem in the minds of the young.

This alliance between Big Pharma and psychiatrists

inventing new nonexistent mental conditions is one of

mutual gain at the expense of those they often destroy.

What has been happening to children is now being

expanded and worse into higher academia. Jon Rappoport,

an American proper journalist who I first met in the 1990s,

published an article in 2017 exposing the systematic

drugging of the student population and highlighting an

origin for many of ‘trigger sensitivity’. Rappoport described

colleges and universities as the number one mind control

program and ‘the unspoken secret in plain sight’. He

revealed that more than 25 percent of college students had

been diagnosed or treated by a professional for a mental

health condition within the previous year. Colleges, he said,

had been taken over in a soft coup. I would add that the

same is happening to global society as the obsession with

‘mental health assessments’ provides the excuse to drug

the population. Rappoport wrote:

Colleges are basically clinics. Psychiatric centers. Colleges

have been taken over. A soft coup has occurred, out of

view. You want to know where all this victim-oriented ‘I’m

triggered’ and ‘I need a safe space’ comes from? You just

found it.

It’s a short step from being diagnosed with a mental

disorder to adopting the role of being super-sensitive to

‘triggers’. You could call it a self-fulfilling prophecy. ‘If I

have a mental disorder, then I’m a victim, and then what

people say and do around me is going disturb to me ...

and I’ll prove it.’

The dangerous and destabilizing effects of psychiatric

drugs confirm this attitude. The drugs DO, in fact, produce

an exaggerated and distorted sensitivity to a person’s

environment. You want to know where a certain amount of

violent aggressive behavior on campuses comes from?

You just found it. The psychiatric drugs. In particular,

antidepressants and speed-type medications for ADHD.

See jonrappoport.wordpress.com for the full article.

Rappoport describes the sequence that ensnares a

student’s mind. First comes a feeling of stress or other

emotion as a result of college work and life. Maybe results

are not so good, a relationship has broken down, it could be

anything. Seeking counselling or medical advice leads on to

psychiatric ‘help’ and a diagnosis of some invented

condition that used to be called ‘growing up’. We are looking

at the medicalisation of emotion and the medicalisation of

essential life experience. Rappoport lists some 300 official

mental conditions that ‘multiply like fruit flies’ for which

there is no diagnostic proof. He quotes Dr Allen Frances who

headed the team in 1994 that defined and labelled every

official mental disorder – all 297 of them. Many years later

Frances would say: ‘There is no definition of a mental

disorder. It’s bullshit. I mean, you just can’t define it ...

These concepts [of distinct mental disorders] are virtually

impossible to define precisely with bright lines at the

borders.’ Students feeling stress are ‘diagnosed’ with one of

these undefined conditions such as bi-polar purely on a

psychiatrist’s say-so and the anti-psychotic drugs come out.

Mind-altering drugs such as Ritalin (chemically similar to

cocaine), Risperdal and so many others which fill the coffers

of Big Pharma are prescribed with effects that include but

are not confined to: Paranoid delusions; paranoid psychosis;

hypomanic and manic symptoms, amphetamine-like

psychosis; activation of psychotic symptoms; toxic

psychosis; visual hallucinations; auditory hallucinations;

LSD-type bizarre experiences; effects on pathological

thought processes; extreme withdrawal; terrified affect;

aggressiveness. Often dramatic changes in the person’s

behaviour as a result of these drugs is explained by the Big

Pharma-controlled (therefore Spider-controlled) psychiatrist

as still more mental conditions that require more or different

drugs. This is the slippery-slope that is destroying great

swathes of whole generations. Rappoport notes at least

300,000 cases of motor brain damage in the US alone in

people prescribed so-called anti-psychotic drugs. Scan the

above effects of those drugs and you can see where much

of the demand for ‘safe-spaces’ come from, the paranoiac

fear of being upset and seeing everything as a potential

danger. This doesn’t mean that all can be explained in this

way, but a lot of it can together with the PC parameters set

by authority and the drug-created psychotic atmosphere

that can be infectious even for those not on the drugs. And

... it’s all being done on purpose to hijack and suppress the

minds of soon-to-be adult generations that will occupy

positions of societal decision-making. Insider and Brave New

World author Aldous Huxley could predict in 1961 what is

happening today because it has all been long planned by

the Archontic Reptilian Web:

There will be, in the next generation or so, a

pharmacological method of making people love their

servitude, and producing dictatorship without tears, so to

speak, producing a kind of painless concentration camp

for entire societies, so that people will in fact have their

own liberties taken away from them, but rather enjoy it,

because they will be distracted from any desire to rebel by

propaganda or brainwashing, or brainwashing enhanced

by pharmacological methods. And this seems to be the

final revolution.

College campuses today and the world tomorrow. Not

even tomorrow – it’s already happening.

Trump Trigger We saw the affect politically in the

United States with the response of Generation Jelly to the

victory of Donald Trump. They and their fellow progressives,

typified by the ‘anti-Establishment’ (Establishment)

filmmaker Michael Moore, were mortified by the defeat of

Hillary Clinton. They are so self-immersed, uninformed and

programmed that they were triggered by the fact that one

of the most corrupt and evil people ever to enter politics

had not won the presidency. Here’s a snap summary that

might help them become untriggered. Hillary Clinton is, with

her cover-story ‘husband’, so utterly and shockingly corrupt

that words have no meaning. They have a long list of dead

people in their wake which has been known since the 1990s

as the ‘Clinton body count’. You don’t want to live long?

Then cross the Clintons. During the 2016 presidential

campaign we had the strange case of Seth Rich who worked

for the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and some

suggest he was the source of the WikiLeaks dump of DNC

emails that exposed manipulation by the party hierarchy in

favour of Clinton and against Bernie Sanders to ensure she

won the Democratic nomination. Emails also revealed that

CNN political analyst Donna Brazile supplied Clinton with

debate questions to give her an advantage over Trump. This

is when the lie was promoted by the DNC and the

mainstream media that Russia was behind the leak and

seeking to rig the election. Brazile had the breathtaking

nerve to say that Russia was trying to ‘manipulate an

election, disrupt or discredit or destroy our democracy [and]

produce an outcome more favourable to them and their

interests.’ Seth Rich was shot dead near his home shortly

before the WikiLeaks emails were made public in an ‘armed

robbery’ in which nothing was stolen. The manager of a bar

where Rich was last seen said that the police never talked to

staff or asked for video camera footage. WorldNetDaily

(WND) questioned the official story:

WND also has reported on the eerie similarities between

Rich’s death and several deaths of individuals linked to

former President Bill Clinton and twice failed presidential

candidate Hillary Clinton. Just as in the Rich case, several

of the people who died mysterious deaths were shot

spontaneously and in public places, sometimes from

behind, sometimes by unknown assailants and often just

before they were set to release incriminating evidence

concerning the Clintons’ activities. In most cases, there

were no signs of theft at the crime scenes. And while

some of the deaths were ruled suicides, other cases

remain a mystery.

I have been highlighting the Clinton body count in my

books since the 1990s and it just goes on getting longer. PC

student progressives and their like in mainstream society

did no research into Clinton and supported her even after

leaked emails confirmed that Clinton and the hierarchy of

the Democratic Party had manipulated events to ensure that

her rival for the presidential nomination – progressive

number one choice Bernie Sanders – could not possibly win.

Clinton was a woman and she wasn’t Trump so what’s more

to know? Well, how about that this alleged bastion of

‘women’s rights’ is a close associate of the Saudi ‘royal’

family who have funded her with millions while treating

women so grotesquely it is almost unimaginable? How about

the indescribable abuse by the Clintons of women in

government/military mind control projects as exposed by

Cathy O’Brien in Trance-formation of America and by many

others? No, that can’t be true, she’s a woman so she must

care about women. It stands to reason doesn’t it?

Progressive ignorance was captured by actress Meryl Streep

in her eulogy for Hillary Clinton which would leave her

embarrassed and mortified if only she would do a modicum

of research into the Clinton horror show. But they don’t and

won’t.

Instead, schools and colleges organised therapy sessions

to cope with student response to their heroine’s defeat and

Trump’s victory. There were communal ‘cry-ins’, ‘therapy-

dogs’, mass hysteria and a virtual-reality Liberal America

Simulator which offered an alternative universe in which the

election produced another result in which Clinton won. Then

there were the violent protests as hate-filled faces screamed

that Trump was a hate-monger. I don’t support Trump or

Clinton and the real issue for conscious minds should have

been how a system could be so rigged that America was

offered the ‘choice’ between Clinton and Trump. PC

progressives in their totality are far too self-absorbed to see

how they caused the very result they were complaining

about and the same with British progressives that were

mortified by the Brexit vote. Those results were made

possible by large numbers of people, often the white

working class, who had been ignored for decades by the

Establishment and its PC progressive censors of free

expression which denied them the right to speak their mind

about the effects, for example, of mass immigration on their

communities. Instead of listening, understanding and having

open debate, the PC brigade hurled insults like ‘racist’ and

bigot’. Frustration of the abused and ignored led to the

rejection of the Establishment and its PC support system in

the votes against the centralised tyranny of the European

Union and in support of Trump who they believed – albeit

wrongly – was anti-Establishment. Progressives have

become the new Establishment, authority and Big Brother

and when people rejected their tyranny they called for cry-

ins and therapy dogs (Fig 425). Taking responsibility for

what they themselves create is never on the table. Looking

in the mirror is so un-PC. Where are the progressives and

Greens in the European Parliament while the EU, European

Central Bank and IMF crushes and crucifies the people of

Greece through a manufactured debt-crisis that has seen

1.5 million Greeks fall into extreme poverty and pensions for

the elderly cut 17 times in seven years? Where are they

when progressives if you believe their own hype should be

in the front line? Nowhere to be seen. They are probably in a

meeting complaining about someone saying ‘man’. If the

‘progressive’ movement is so anti-Establishment then why is

it funded to such a large extent by billionaires about as

liberal as Genghis Khan? I’ll be coming to that in more

detail. British doctor and psychiatrist Anthony Daniels, who

uses the pen name Theodore Dalrymple, said that political

correctness appears to be infective, spreading from brain to

brain like a form of chronic mass hysteria. He compares it

with the workings of capitalism. New desires must be

stimulated to keep the capitalist system expanding to

survive, and political correctness ‘must discover new

injustices to set right by a mixture of censorship, language

reform, and legal privileges for minorities’. This was how PC

had survived. He said that the meaning of life for the

politically correct is political agitation. ‘Dalrymple’ rightly





describes political correctness as speaking power to truth

when it should be speaking truth to power. PC is an

inversion of ‘liberal’ and ‘diversity’ (Fig 426).

F igure 4 2 5 : Tyranny that calls itself ‘liberal’.

F igure 4 2 6 : The PC inversion – destroying the diversity that it

claims to stand

for.

Manufactured separation Those who are not

ensnared by the PC program, young and not so young, who

can see through the illusions, need to make a stand before

all pillars of freedom are gone. We must not be intimidated

by this fascism and instead look it in the eye. If we don’t

then no one else will and certainly not the snowflake

generations. Students once marched for freedom of speech,

now the snowflakes march against it. Far from seeing, let

alone challenging, the forces that will enslave them for a

lifetime, snowflakes are on the frontline pressing on to the

next deletion of basic rights and freedoms. These PC

Provisional Progressives are keenly supported by their

political wing, the PC-obsessed Green parties and that part

of the political Left which confuses debate with screaming

abuse and slogans. Facts don’t matter to snowflakes

whether that be researching them or believing them to be of

any relevance. Emotion drives their perceptions, not facts.

We live in a post-fact society. I saw students protesting

against Trump’s travel ban list of mostly-Muslim countries.

They were asked to name the countries on that list, but they

couldn’t. Facts don’t matter, only emotion has any validity.

Manufactured divisions are being instigated to separate old

and young. Older generations are being depicted as those

who have had their time and should move aside to let the

snowflakes take over. Fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty years of

experience are of no importance when snowflakes know it

all already. The anti-old campaign was most obvious with

Brexit where the majority of those voting to leave the EU

were from older generations. Snowflakes accused them of

destroying the future of the young when they had just voted

to save it. Snowflake programming means that being

controlled and dictated to by dark-suit bureaucrats they

have never voted for and cannot name constitute securing

their future. Older people voted for Brexit because they

have had long enough to witness the effects on their

country, community and freedom since Britain was signed

into what became the EU in 1973 by the paedophile and

Satanist, Edward Heath. The EU dictatorship is all that the

snowflakes have ever known and this is what really divided

old and young perspectives and united the snowflakes with

the Establishment, which almost in its entirety campaigned

to stay in the EU. Naï vety may be touching sometimes, but

it is potentially fatal to freedom.

Novelist and EU supporter Ian McEwan gave us a flavour

of this mentality when he said the Brexit vote had been won

by ‘a gang of angry old men, irritable even in victory’ who

are ‘shaping the future of the country against the

inclinations of its youth.’ He was talking about those who

have had longer to see what the EU has done and were not

born into EU-domination with no other compass to compare

this with. His ‘gang of old men’ also include many who

fought for five years in unimaginable circumstances to stop

the Nazis taking over Europe in the Second World War when

Hitler had something in mind very much like the EU

Commission and centralised bureaucratic control of the

continent had he won. McEwan, who sounds a lovely man,

told a conference of EU supporters that by 2019 thousands

of elderly anti-EU voters would be ‘freshly in their graves’

and this could make the country more ‘receptive’ to staying

in the European Union. Never mind respecting their right to

an opinion – just wait till they die and then we get what we

want. Britain’s progressive Professor Richard Dawkins, a

legend

in

his

own

mind

with

a

fundamental

misunderstanding of reality, dismissed Brexit voters as

‘stupid, ignorant people’ and said, ‘it is unfair to thrust on to

unqualified simpletons the responsibility to take historic

decisions of great complexity and sophistication’. He must

surely have been holding a mirror at the time. American

actor Michael Shannon, another progressive who supported

Hillary Clinton while knowing absolutely nothing about her,

went even further in a bilious attack against those who

commit the twin crime of being old and voting in a way he

doesn’t agree with. This stunning intellect said:

There’s a lot of old people who need to realize they’ve had

a nice life. And it’s time for them to move on. Because

they’re the ones who go out and vote for these assholes.

If you look at the young people, between 18 and 25, if it

was up to them Hillary would have been president. No

offense to the seniors out there. My mom’s a senior

citizen. But if you’re voting for Trump, it’s time for the urn.

Wherever you look, ‘progressivism’ is the new tyranny and

irony of ironies it is driven by those who perceive

themselves to be ‘antifascist’. Pope Francis, an El-lite puppet

who was 80 at the time of writing, has urged businesses all

over the world to replace old people with young people – so

long as that doesn’t apply to him, naturally. He tried to

couch this in terms of old people should be given a ‘just

pension’, but he knows that won’t happen. Progressive

political parties claim to represent the young but they are

simply exploiting them. Pressure is building among

progressive politics in Britain to lower the voting age to 16

to ‘give young people a voice’. This is disingenuous crap.

They know that young people are more likely to vote for

progressive parties (while not knowing the real agenda) and

they want the voting age reduced for purely political

reasons. Nick Clegg, the shockingly inept former leader of

the progressive UK Liberal Democrats, demanded a second

Brexit referendum in which ... ‘We should give every

youngster under 30 a weighted vote of twice the value of

everybody else, because it’s their future.’ This is yet more

exploitation of the young. EU worshipper Clegg is desperate

to stay in the EU tyranny and any excuse or manipulation

will do. I would ask young people and progressives who

have a problem with the equal human rights of older people

to remember that one day they will be old and they will

have to live in the world they are demanding for others now.

You can expect this demonisation of older generations to

both continue and deepen because it is all leading to

something called the ‘demise pill’ for old people which I will

come to later.

Antifascist fascism Some progressive groups even

justify violence on the grounds that fascists are violent and

so they have a right to be. Among them are Antifa

(‘AntiFascist’) and the protest technique known as Black

Bloc in which the participants stay close together and wear

black clothing and masks. These are groups operating in

many countries and pledged to use violence to ‘smash all

fascism in all its forms’. Does that include their own? They

claim to be ‘far-left’ but as always what is presented as a

political spectrum is actually a circle where ‘far-left’ and ‘far-

right’ meet at the same point and so behave the same way.

They oppose each other when they are each other – a

standing wave. Only the labels are different. Black Bloc and

Antifa oppose sexism, racism, and classism, but not

violencism. They were involved in violent protests at the

University of California, Berkeley in the wake of Trump’s

election and at the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, in

2017. Jeeez ...now we have the infantilisation of protest and

activism. I’m sure there are some genuine people in their

ranks but from what I have seen they are dominated by

angry, desperately uniformed hypocrites simply looking for

a fight. There is, of course, police provocation against

demonstrators, but don’t tell me these groups need an

excuse. They go with the intent of violence and discredit the

majority who demonstrate peacefully. Who benefits? Those

they claim to be protesting against. Who lose out? The

genuine and peaceful protesters who get tarred with the

same public image and have their voices silenced by the

sound of rage and violence from self-indulgent little boys

and girls in their version of school uniform. You change

nothing with hate in your heart and you can only make

things worse. Germany’s Chancellor Merkel was asked why

she chose Hamburg for the G20 when the city is a well-

known centre for such activism, but the question answers

itself when you know that violence is what they want to

advance their own political agenda. Groups of fascistic

morons like Black Bloc and Antifa are used, funded and

infiltrated by the El-ite to target people they wish to silence

and for the essential divide and rule (see end of book

postscript). I have two words to say to them: Grow up. We

should also be aware there are now companies specialising

in providing fake protestors paid for their work and actors

posing as activists and advocates of a cause. One is called

Crowds on Demand run by CEO Adam Swart which stages

rallies and demonstrations for politicians and others. Swart

said he has 20,000 actors across the country with most

required to sign a non-disclosure agreement, but he sees no

problem with this: ‘We are merely part of the democratic

process if you ask me.’ I won’t, thanks.

An Internet video shows a young white man in the UK

holding up a placard saying: ‘The right to discuss must be

defended.’ That’s fair enough and also quite right. How

could that be a problem? Oh, but it can if you are suffering

from rampant cognitive dissonance and up-your-own-arse

syndrome. A white woman harasses him holding a placard

saying ‘F* * k off Nazi scrum’. I think she meant fuck off, but I

can’t be sure because those asterisks hid it so well (Fig

427). The woman shouts ‘Look at you, white man’ and

someone else screams ‘You’re a fucking white man.’ Top

marks again for observation, I’m sure he’d never noticed.

Male progressives with faces covered in black scarves then

move in and another white woman in black glasses urges



her moronic mates to stand in front of the man so that

people can’t read his placard saying that the right to discuss

must be defended. ‘Everyone just cover him, just cover his

shit’, the Liberal warrior demands. The mob then pushes

him away and forces him to leave amid chants of ‘Nazi

scrum’. They chant ‘Nazi’ while acting like them but what

pass for their minds are too solidified to see that and maybe

their torch batteries were on the blink. In this inverted

world, the progressives act like fascists and many of those

labelled ‘far right’ can be moderate by comparison. But the

bewildered majority buy the media labels and not the reality

– especially the ‘antifascists’ who support political fascists

because they call themselves ‘Left’ or ‘Centrist’. The label is

king. Reality is the enemy.

F igure 4 2 7 : The PC inversion.

Turning the tide Let us not forget, however, that there

are still significant numbers of young people who have not

fallen for The Program in all its forms and can see what the

snowflakes cannot. They must stand together with the rest

of us and not be bowed into silence by PC extremists. This

won’t make them popular but it is essential for this to be

turned around. The sinister nonsense needs exposing for

what it is in one-syllable, un-PC, Oldspeak. I was glad to see

UK journalist Andrew Pierce having the courage to do this in

an article headed: ‘I’ve had it up to here with these gender

fascists!’ He was commenting on the decision by the RAF to

ban women service personnel from wearing skirts on the

parade ground in case this upset transgender recruits. A

blanket ban on 4,400 women over potentially upsetting

what is a tiny handful. This is the tyranny of the minority

and the smaller the minority the greater the tyranny. That’s

the PC way. Pierce points out that those who perceive

themselves as transgender comprise less than one per cent

of the more than 65 million UK population and only 300 can

be found in a total service personnel of 32,000. He said that

town halls, education authorities and even some nurseries

seemed to be in thrall to the gender thought police and this

is happening all over the world. Victoria State in Australia

launched a training programme (mind program) for

thousands of teachers at a cost of millions of dollars to ‘stop

racism and sexism’ in children as young as four by spotting

those who ‘enact sexist values, beliefs and attitudes’.

Andrew Pierce wrote:

So how did the trans lobby become so influential? The

answer lies in the fact that in the past 20 years, gay

people have become more mainstream, with civil

partnerships and gay weddings widely accepted.

Not everyone, though, was content to let gays like me –

who came out in the Eighties and fought for equality –

enjoy our newfound freedoms. The extremists among us

became bored by what had effectively become

conventional mainstream lifestyles. Rebels without a

cause, they had to find a new one. And they did: gender

politics.

I bet a Twitter storm followed.

I don’t care what people call themselves or how they live

their lives so long as they don’t impose that on anyone else.

No one should be discriminated against for their race or

sexuality, but neither should anyone be discriminated

against for their opinion by those who claim to be ‘anti-

discrimination’. The pious can’t see the bias. Jenni Murray, a

long-time campaigner for the rights of women and host of

the Woman’s Hour show on BBC radio, was the subject of a

Twitter storm when she said in a newspaper article that men

who become women are not real women as in ‘natural’

women while she expressed her respect for those who make

that choice. She was condemned as a ‘bigot’ and ‘dinosaur’

with the usual self-righteous indignation and the BBC

apparently reminded her of its rules of impartiality. This

‘impartiality’ is measured purely against whether what a

BBC employee has said is within the rules of political

correctness or fits with the BBC party line. TV presenter

Gary Lineker, paid £ 1.8 million a year for hosting a football

programme, protested against Donald Trump and the Brexit

vote, but that was no problem because the BBC was against

Trump and Brexit. George Orwell, a former BBC employee

himself, would have recognised this concept of good bias

(authority agrees with it) and bad bias (authority doesn’t

agree with it) that we see in these two cases.

Andrew Pierce is right to expose rebels without a cause

(victims in constant pursuit of victimhood) and on one level

this is what is happening. But take a step further back into

the shadows and that psychological state is being

encouraged and exploited to a much bigger end. Obsession

with the body and fine detail of ‘physical’ identity has

spawned identity politics or the politics of me, me, me.

Identity politics supports only those sources and causes

which advance its own interests. Little things like what is

best for everyone, what is fair and just for all are no longer

criteria for political support by identity obsessives. It is

another expression of divide and rule. We must not concede

fairness and justice for all to these weeping warriors of self-

interest. We need to let fairness, justice and freedom be our

guide and not racial or sexual self-identity. The late Jewish



Member of Parliament Gerald Kaufman spoke out for

Palestinians and against the Israeli government in total

disregard for identity politics. He accused the government of

Israel of cynically exploiting the Holocaust as justification for

their murder of Palestinians. He recalled how his

grandmother was killed by the Nazis and he said: ‘My

grandmother did not die to provide cover for Israeli soldiers

murdering Palestinian grandmothers in Gaza.’ Kaufman was

not popular with Zionist extremism and was accused of

pandering to antiSemitism when he was, in truth, pandering

to fairness, justice and basic humanity. This is what we need

to roll back – the antifascist fascism – and allow humanity to





recover control of its collective mind (Fig 428).

F igure 4 2 8 : We need to stop taking this crap.

Political correctness more than anything is about divide

and rule with fault-lines of division ever subdivided and set

at war with each other. While humanity is at war with itself

the Archontic Reptilian force is at war with humanity. The

more division they can trigger the more effective their

control will be and the antidote to being driven apart is

coming together.

It is long past the ‘time’ that we did.

‘‘Where they have burned books, they will end in burning

human beings’ – H einrich H eine

Political correctness is not about ending discrimination but

about manipulating the target population to silence the

target population to protect the perception deception and its

Postage Stamp mentality.

Peter Tatchell is right that bigotry should be dealt with by

debate and information and not censorship. I am always

wary of people and governments that so lack confidence in

the power of their own argument they seek to ban the views

of others. What are they so afraid of? Why do Israel and

extremes of Zionism work so hard to ban those who

question their actions? If they are so sure of themselves

they wouldn’t care. Oh, but they do care. They know that if

their own background, racism and bigotry was exposed a lot

of people would see events from a new perspective. So

don’t argue your case, ban those who don’t agree with you.

Germany is one of the worst places on Earth for such

freedom-deletion with its broad and vaguely defined

‘Volksverhetzung’ or ‘incitement of the people’ law that

could in theory be applied against any political statement.

Censorship laws that target freedom are vaguely worded on

purpose to allow the widest interpretation in the way that

‘anti-terror’ laws claim to target terrorism but are then

applied to the public as a whole. More than a dozen venues

in multiple German cities either wouldn’t take a booking for

my speaking events or did so and then withdrew under

threats and intimidation from hate-filled Zionist ‘anti-hate’

groups. Thousands of people in allegedly ‘free’ Germany

want to hear me speak, but a few bigots supported by The

System and jelly-spine venue owners deny them that basic

human right. The most outrageous example was the Maritim

Hotel in Berlin who accepted our booking, signed a contract

for October 2017, and then told the media they had

cancelled the event without to this day even telling us. They

refused to take phone calls to ask what was going on. Talk

about contempt for contracts and customers. A Maritim

spokeswoman told the media: ‘Unfortunately, at the time of

the request we were not aware that David Icke would

participate in the event. We only found this out later.’ This

was an extraordinary statement given they were sent a

venue pack with my picture, my background and the nature

of my talk. My son Jaymie, who organises the events, also

flew to Berlin to meet the hotel management, sign the

contract and give them the background to how other venues

in Germany had cancelled. The Maritim Hotel chain declined

to give a reason for the decision, but I knew what it was

because it was the same with all of them. Zionist

organisations contact them with a pack of lies about me and

what I will say, and venue owners cancel the booking and

the laxative order no matter how provably ludicrous the

claims can be shown to be (Fig 429). Staff at the Carl Benz

Arena in Stuttgart said that they cancelled an earlier

booking because of the ‘contentious nature’ of what they

were told I would say. My God, we must never have views

that are contentious. How would freedom of speech survive

if we did? An Arena statement said they held to the ‘values

of the German Basic Law – which also includes the right to

free speech, but of course only as long as this conforms to

the democratic principles of our society.’ We believe in free

speech BUT. There is always the BUT because they don’t

believe in free speech at all. It’s just bullshit. I am calling for

more freedom, what some call democracy, but I am banned

for not conforming, note conforming, to the ‘democratic

principles of our society’ which are being deleted in

Germany by the hour. Any excuse will do to justify

destroying the free circulation of information and opinion.

Ben Knight, writer of a media article about the Maritim ban,

accused me, with no evidence, because there isn’t any, of

being a racist. ‘Journalists’ think anything goes with me and

they have to stay safely on the side of the accusers or they

will also be called ‘antiSemitic’. We are looking at a

hierarchy of fear and ignorance. They are absolutely

clueless about me and the world they are reporting, and

‘fake news’ doesn’t begin to suffice. Knight said that like

many ‘racist conspiracy theorists’ I identified billionaire

investor George Soros as an enemy of humanity. What does

Knight know about the tidal wave of information that has

exposed the manipulations of Soros on so many fronts? Er,

nothing. Ahhh, but Soros is Jewish and so I must be racist.

This is the media mentality from which billions gets their

views of people and the world. The Internet article was

tagged with the keywords ‘David Icke, antiSemitism and



Holocaust denial‘ to ensure that those three words would be

connected ongoing in search engines. This is called

journalism, apparently, but then you will recall the German

experience of Udo Ulfkotte. Germany promotes itself as a

free country when it is a tyranny and while ‘journalists’

attack people like me for exposing what they don’t have the

intelligence or balls to expose, their own freedom of

expression is being deleted by the day. Dr Wolfgang Herles,

retired head of ‘public-service’ television network ZDF Bonn,

said that this and other networks are told what to report

(and

not)

by

the

German

government:

F igure 4 2 9 : Use it or it disappears.

We have the problem that – now I’m mainly talking about

the public media – we have closeness to the government.

Not only because commentary is mainly in line with the

grand coalition [The System], with the spectrum of

opinion, but also because we are completely taken in by

the agenda laid down by the political class.

The same can be found across the world and mass

rejection of the mainstream media by rapidly increasing

numbers of people has led to the El-lite moving in on the

alternative media to absorb the corruptible and silence the

incorruptible. The most laughable (and sinister) element of

Knight’s article, apart from the arbitrary label of racist, were

quotes from Jan Rathje of the Amadeu Antonio Stiftung, ‘an

NGO that tracks racism in Germany’. He ‘welcomed’ the

cancellation of my German events because censorship of

other views is no problem to these people so long as their

views are never censored. This was Rathje’s opener: ‘David

Icke has a lot of influence on the conspiracy ideological

scene, especially through the antiSemitism he spreads,

which appeals to people in Germany because it offers some

relief from the guilt of German crimes against humanity in

the Holocaust.’ What a slur on an entire nation and, as

always, the Holocaust is central to justifying censorship. The

exploitation of what happened in Nazi Germany to justify

censorship today is a real stomach-turner for me. It’s

absolutely disgusting to exploit those people to pursue a

present-day personal agenda but it happens all the time.

Accuse someone of being a ‘Holocaust denier’ and all doors

slam shut to them. This includes the cell door in Germany

where people are jailed for having another view and version

of history. I don’t have to agree with them to recognise that

being jailed for seeing history differently – in whatever way

that may be – is an expression of fascism. How ironic.

Rathje’s hysteria reaches its climax with the claim that

when I say reptilians I am using this as code for Jews.

Evidence? Nil. But he doesn’t need any and journalistic

pawns like the said Ben Knight will never ask for any. Rathje

then truly enters the Twilight Zone: ‘People know how to

decode the code about reptilians – whether Icke means it or

not, it doesn’t change that fact.’ Let me decode the codes

about codes: ‘Reptilians is code for Jews and even if it’s not,

it is.’ I hope that’s clearer for you now. Can it get any more

crazy? Yes it can. Another Rathje gem: ‘It seems ridiculous,

but the conclusion that Icke draws is that because he thinks

the reptilians are pulling the strings [of the world] therefore

the Holocaust didn’t happen – that’s antiSemitism.’ No

words necessary or possible and, of course, we have the

continual misrepresentation of the term ‘antiSemitism’

which is a language group dominated by Arabic. I tell this

story to highlight how easy it is to censor free speech today

and it is all being done systematically with political

correctness right there on the front line (Fig 430). No facts

are required, not even coherence, only abuse. ‘Freedom of

speech’ really means never saying anything that The

System doesn’t like. Those who conform to these strict

parameters believe they have a freedom that doesn’t

actually exist. Freedom to conform is not freedom. Those



who ban my talks in Germany are a wonderful example with

their contempt for free speech while believing they support

it – BUT. What a statement about illusory freedom in

Germany that we had to move the ‘German’ event to

Maastricht just over the border in The Netherlands so that

‘free’ Germans could hear what I have to say.

F igure 4 3 0 : Those afraid of information always have something to

hide.

The ‘anti-Semite’ industry was on my case from the late

1990s and you can see what I had to put up with by typing

‘David Icke, the lizards and the Jews’ into YouTube. Another

reason they gave for venues to cancel my events was that I

was naming former UK Prime Minister Edward Heath as a

paedophile and Satanist. Seventeen years later a UK police

force began an inquiry into Heath’s paedophilia and

Satanism when witnesses came forward. The ‘anti-Semite’

censors had left me alone for some 15 years until it

restarted out of the blue. The week I was due to speak in

Manchester in January 2017 came an approach for an

interview by first the not-to-be-trusted Guardian newspaper

and when I turned them down there immediately followed a

request to cover the event by the Guardian’s television

equivalent Channel 4 News, with its constantly virtue-

signalling host, Jon Snow. I agreed to this until less than 24

hours later when the Manchester venue was contacted by

the Campaign Against Antisemitism (CAA) doing a passable

impression of what later came from Jan Rathje with its

demands, tone and shocking misrepresentation. The

coincidence of this happening within the same 24 hours

after so many years of being left alone was so obvious that I

told Channel 4 News I was no longer interested. I can’t

prove a connection and nor am I claiming one but it was

such a coincidence that I was taking no chances with a

possible set-up. Maybe it was the Guardian or maybe it

really was just an amazing coincidence. A CAA bod called

Stephen Silverman, who refers to me as a ‘modern day hate

preacher’, was unsuccessful in getting the Manchester

venue to cancel because I have been speaking at their

venues for a long time and they knew that what Silverman

said was nonsense. He urged people in the audience to

contact him with reports of what I said and their complaints

about it. They wrote to him in droves to point out that I

didn’t say anything ‘antiSemitic’ and instead contended that

identity with race is ridiculous and we need to love each

other and realise that we are all one consciousness having

different experiences. Mr Silverman, who calls himself the

CAA Director of Investigations and Enforcement, did not

publish what they said or apologise for his gross

misrepresentation of me. He was too busy with his next

target. The CAA, chaired by a Gideon Falter, was established

in August 2014 with funding from ‘private donations’ while

the world was being horrified by the daily bombing by Israel

of the mass-populated Gaza Strip in Operation Protective

Edge which killed more than 2,000 Palestinians with more

than 500 of them children. CAA assets see antiSemitism

everywhere with their highly questionable ‘public surveys’

and the targeting of politicians and other individuals.

Shockingly, the CAA is a ‘charitable incorporated

organisation’ registered with the Charity Commission. The

Charity Commission? What – an organisation that seeks to

delete the freedom of speech of the population and tries to

ban even the musical events of people like Israel-born and

Britain-based jazz musician and activist Gilad Atzmon? It’s

outrageous. Even British Jewish Member of Parliament

Gerald Kaufman was a CAA target with their condemnation

of him continuing after his death:

By saying that ‘Jewish money’ was used to subvert the

British government, he was complicit in a centuries-old

chorus of those accusing Jews of conspiracy and of

showing disloyalty to their own country. This is explicit

antisemitism: the International Definition of Antisemitism

(as adopted by the Labour Party) explicitly states that

‘Making mendacious, dehumanising, demonising, or

stereotypical allegations about Jews as such or the power

of Jews as collective — such as, especially but not

exclusively, the myth about a world Jewish conspiracy or

of Jews controlling the media, economy, government or

other societal institution’ is antisemitic.

At the same meeting he was also recorded saying:

‘...because perhaps I can tell you in a way no-one else can

tell you’ – intimating that his having being born Jewish

afforded him a protection which intimidated others into

silence. Is political correctness in the face of antisemitism

any less weak and immoral when applied to Jews?

The thoroughly decent Kaufman put people and justice

before racial and religious bias, but the CAA declared that

he left ‘a rotting stain on both the Labour Party and

Parliament that will continue to eat away at both institutions

until such time as genuine and public acts of regret and

apology are made.’ Oh, yes, get down on your knees

everyone to the CAA and its like. Know your place. The only

rotting stains that I can see are for the CAA to make such

disgusting remarks on the death of a Jewish man of high

integrity, and the rotting stain they constantly leave on

basic human freedoms. The CAA pledged on Kaufman’s

death to continue its campaign to free Britain’s institutions

of ‘antiSemitism’ – ‘ensuring that they are not places that

quietly give poisonous racism a pass because it happened

to come out of the mouth of a rather harmless-looking old

Jewish man who happened to be our longest-serving MP.’

Words have no meaning in the face of such polemic. Even

Jewish people are not allowed to criticise Zionist actions

such is the tyranny of censorship that we are dealing with.

These censors continually deny something on one hand and

prove it with their actions on the other. And if what Kaufman

said from his personal experience is ‘mendacious’ then

prove it. Produce the evidence. Explain why Zionist

columnist Joel Stein wrote in the Los Angeles Times in 2008:

‘As a proud Jew, I want America to know about our

accomplishment. Yes, we control Hollywood ...The Jews are

so dominant, I had to scour the trades to come up with six

Gentiles in high positions at entertainment companies.’ Put

‘Who runs Hollywood? C’mon’ into a search engine to read

the full article. Yet anyone else who notes what Stein notes

about Zionist dominance in Hollywood is condemned as a

racist. Zionist censorship doesn’t deal in facts, only slogans

and abuse, because it knows where open debate and

discourse will lead.

The political goal all along with the CAA and the Zionist

censorship network worldwide has been clearly to equate

antiSemitism with criticism of Israel to protect the Israeli

regime from legitimate investigation and challenge (Fig

431). This is not only to silence exposure of horrific

happenings in places like Gaza, but to silence exposure of

even worse that is planned to happen. Emmanuel Macron,

the Rothschild puppet President of France, took precisely

this line in an address with Benjamin Netanyahu when he

said: ‘We will never surrender to the messages of hate; we

will not surrender to anti-Zionism because it is a reinvention

of antiSemitism.’ They’ll enjoy this book, then, and how kind

of Netanyahu to write Macron’s speech. To equate criticism

of a country and political movement with racism is deeply

sinister and very much a sign of things to come unless a lot

of backbones stir themselves awake and refuse to sanction

such tyranny. Meanwhile, those crying ‘racist’ are silent

when Israeli MP Aylet Shaked says of Palestinians: ‘Kill the

mothers to stop other little snakes being born.’ This is

straight from the script of the Old Testament Archontic

‘god’: ‘You shall not leave alive anything that breathes but

you shall utterly destroy them.’ Rabbi Shlomo Mlmad,

chairman of the so-called Council of Rabbis in illegal Israeli

West Bank settlements, called on Jewish settlers to poison

Palestinian water supplies to force them from their land and

allow Israelis to take over. Israeli Rabbi Shmuel Eliyahu

believes the army should stop arresting Palestinians and

simply execute them. He also said in 2007: ‘If they don’t

stop after we kill 100, then we must kill 1,000. And if they

do not stop after 1,000, then we must kill 10,000. If they still

don’t stop we must kill 100,000, even a million.’ Israeli

soldier Elor Azaria casually shot a 21-year-old Palestinian in

the head as the man lay wounded and motionless on the

ground after a knife attack on another soldier. One poll had

82 percent of Israelis saying the extrajudicial killing was

justified and of course he secured the usual enthusiastic



support from Netanyahu who said he would support a

pardon. Azaria is serving just 18 months for a cold-blooded

execution. Put ‘Elor Azaria is filmed shooting the

incapacitated man’ into YouTube and see if you think the

cold-blooded killing was ‘justified’. Israelis – and especially

their volunteer and conscripted army – are brainwashed to

fear and hate Palestinians and consequently many see them

as less than human. This programmed contempt justifies in

their minds any scale of atrocity and abuse. Some extremely

sick Israelis even sat on a hill night after night whooping and

cheering as state-of-the-art missiles dropped on Gaza

civilians in the 2014 Israeli campaign of mass murder. Then

there is the systematic reduction of electricity supplies to

Gaza by Israel with catastrophic consequences, not least in

hospitals. Where is the Zionist condemnation of the

stunning racism of the Israeli regime against Ethiopian Jews

and other black Africans? Where is the condemnation of

Israeli politicians who describe Palestinians as snakes and

cockroaches? Or the jailing of more than 15,000 Palestinian

women and young girls since the Israeli occupation began?

Or the incarceration of children? Where is the condemnation

of organisations like the Jewish Defence League (JDL) which

has been listed as a terrorist organisation by the FBI? But

none of this is racism and it is antiSemitic to say so –

nothing to concern you here, move along now (Figs 432 and

433).

F igure 4 3 1 : The most racist creed on Earth – Zionism – is not racist.

I love it.





F igure 4 3 2 : Zionism’s answer to free speech.

F igure 4 3 3 : Zionist racism is disgusting beyond words and the

hypocrisy is

beyond belief.

And the Lord said ... you shall silence

them Zionism has long been censoring universities both

sides of the Atlantic with regard to anything questioning the

actions of Israel and we should remember the words of

Russian poet and writer, Yevgeny Yevtushenko: ‘When truth

is replaced by silence, the silence is a lie.’ Events

highlighting the treatment of Palestinians are now

increasingly banned. The universities of Exeter and Central

Lancashire intervened to cancel student-run events in 2017

raising awareness about Palestinian human rights in ‘Israeli

Apartheid Week’. This is now a regular outcome since the

UK government adopted a new definition of ‘antiSemitism’

produced by an obviously biased group called the

International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance which

widens the interpretation of racism to include criticism of

Israel. How come criticism of a country of eight million

people (around six million are Jewish) is subject to the law

when criticism of the United States with a population of 326

million is not? Well, not yet anyway. Some 250 academics

wrote in protest at the demolition of free speech at UK

universities, but to no avail. Dr Haim Bresheeth, a Jewish

academic, said that the new definition sought to protect

Zionism and Israel from criticism. ‘You can criticise and you

should criticise every political institution that you wish [but]

we are told now that Jews who criticise Israel like me are

antiSemitic. This is nonsense.’ It is, but there is, once again,

method in the madness. Israel, Zionism, and especially its

Sabbatean Frankist secret society core, are obsessed with

silencing any opposition and that includes at home where

the Zionist extremist and Education Minister Naftali Bennett

imposed a new ‘ethical code’ which banned academics at all

Israel universities from discussing politics with their

students and barred academic departments from contacting

politically-affiliated groups or organisations. This is the only

time that I ever expect to write the words ‘ethical’ and

‘Naftali Bennett’ in the same sentence. The UK Campaign

Against Antisemitism (CAA) encouraged supporters to

‘record, film, photograph and get witness evidence’ about

Israeli Apartheid Week events and ‘we will help you to take

it up with the university, students’ union or even the police’.

How sinister is that? The arrogance of these people is

without limit. A group who call themselves Irish4Israel

successfully campaigned to have another academic

discussion about Israel banned by Cork University after

Southampton University had earlier done the same. Both

gave the excuse of ‘security concerns’. What does this

mean – they had threats? Irish4Israel ran away from an

interview on the Richie Allen radio show to justify their

actions because, while they pledge to ‘debate with anyone’,

they said this does not include anyone in any way

associated with me. What this contradiction of ‘anyone’

really means is anyone who will ask softball questions and

nod politely as the mainstream media do. Lunacy reached

new depths when Franck Allais, a French artist living in

London, had the idea of making 27 road warning signs

depicting in silhouette people and animals commonly seen

in particular areas crossing the road. He had no problem

with 26 of them, including an old person, a cat and a mother

and baby, but the other sign featured the silhouette of an

orthodox Jewish man near a synagogue (Fig 434).

‘AntiSemitic’ came the cry. A ‘Jewish community group’

reported this act of ‘racism’ to the police while the ludicrous

Labour Member of Parliament Diane Abbott called it

‘disgusting’ and ‘unacceptable’(virtue signalling) and her

Labour colleague David Lammy said the sign amounted to

‘despicable, nasty behaviour that has absolutely no place in

our community’ (virtue signalling). How about idiot MPs? Do

they have any place in our parliament? Unfortunately, it

seems that they do. My son Gareth made a Twitter comment

that he was waiting for Netanyahu to blame the sign on Iran

and the CAA were on it like a shot: ‘Meet Gareth Icke, whose

only reaction to a sign warning of a ‘Jewish hazard’ in

London is to predict how the Jewish state will exploit it.’

Ironically, this comment came from a full-time apologist for

the Israeli regime who had indeed been exploiting the sign

as confirmation of antiSemitism. Then came the story of

what the 27 signs around London were really all about –



depicting common sights in different areas – and the

professional finger-pointers looked absolutely ridiculous.

Artist Franck Allais still felt it necessary to apologise for any

upset caused when those who branded the sign racist

should have done the apologising. But that will be the day.

Humility and a sense of humour are not their forte.

F igure 4 3 4 : Silhouette of a Jewish man in a Jewish area was

‘antiSemitic’.

The Israeli Parliament (a building paid for by the

Rothschilds) passed a bill in March 2017 banning from the

country ‘any person who is not an Israeli citizen or

permanent resident if he, or the organisation or body in

which he is active, has knowingly issued a public call to

boycott the state of Israel or pledged to take part in such a

boycott.’ This refers to the Boycott, Divestment and

Sanctions (BDS) movement which campaigns for a boycott

of Israeli and global companies that serve the oppression of

Palestinians until they have the same rights as Jews in

Israel/Palestine. Other countries and many American states

have passed laws banning government contracts with any

company participating in the boycott. What if they boycott

Palestinians? Not a problem. An ‘Israel Anti-Boycott Bill’ was

signed by 45 US senators and 237 congressional

representatives that would make it a criminal offence for a

US citizen to support a boycott of Israel. The American Civil

Liberties Union (ACLU) said:

The bill would ... bar U.S. persons from supporting

boycotts against Israel, including its settlements in the

Palestinian

Occupied

Territories,

conducted

by

international governmental organisations, such as the

United Nations and the European Union. It would also

broaden the law to include penalties for simply requesting

information about such boycotts. Violations would be

subject to a minimum civil penalty of $250,000 and a

maximum criminal penalty of $1 million and 20 years in

prison. We take no position for or against the effort to

boycott Israel or any foreign country, for that matter.

However, we do assert that the government cannot,

consistent with the First Amendment, punish U.S. persons

based solely on their expressed political beliefs.

Such is the power that Israel has over American politicians

and why does a country of eight million people warrant such

protection from boycotts when there is no such protection

for anyone else? Benjamin Cardin, a Zionist Senator, was

the bill’s main sponsor and it was apparently drafted by the

ultra-Zionist US lobby group, the American Israel Public

Affairs Committee (AIPAC). Get off your knees America.

Israel says the BDS boycott is ... wait for it ... what can it be?

... the suspense is killing me ... yes ... antiSemitic. Well

knock me down with a feather. An event planned by BDS

Austria during Israeli Apartheid Week was cancelled by a

hotel after receiving ‘incessant calls, some by those

identifying themselves as representatives of the Jewish

community in Austria’, according to BDS Austria. ‘These

people had issued threats and allegations of antiSemitism

against hotel staff, as well as announcing, without further

detail, protest actions and boycott calls against the hotel –

the hotel management felt threatened by this, to the extent

of asking for police protection.’ Here we have the real story

behind events cancelled ‘for security issues’ and this was

their modus operandi to get my venues in Germany to

cancel. The venues dare not say so and another excuse is

produced to hide the truth. A spokesman for the Austrian

hotel told the media they had received ‘unpleasant’ calls,

but later gave the reason to cancel as being unable to

accommodate a large public event. Yeah, right. This is how

gutlessness destroys freedom of speech and what you won’t

stand up for you always lose. It is not the censors ultimately

that destroy freedom of speech, but those who give in to

them and their intimidation and lies.

There was a blatant example of this when I spoke in

Canada in August 2017. I was banned from speaking for well

over a decade in Canada because of the Zionist lobby and

its sycophantic, arse-licking gofers. I then applied for a

speaking visa to try again and eventually it was granted.

Events were booked and advertised for Toronto and

Vancouver and all seemed to be going fine. Then the first

venue in Toronto pulled out with an excuse we didn’t really

believe and we booked another, the Metro Toronto

Convention Center which is, according to its website: ‘... a

joint venture between the Federal Government of Canada,

the Province of Ontario and the Municipality of Metropolitan

Toronto.’ This is the same Federal Government of Canada

that gave me the speaking visa and you would have thought

there could be no problem. Not so. The venue accepted the

booking in April 2017, contracts were signed and the event

advertised on its website. By mid-July nearly all the tickets

were gone and members of the audience had booked hotels

and some even flights. Then came one letter from the

Zionists – one letter – complaining that I was being allowed

to speak and the Metro Toronto Convention Center cancelled

the event. They did this with utter contempt for freedom of

speech and utter contempt for the consequences for ticket

holders. Who exactly sent the letter? We were not allowed

to know. What did it say? We were not allowed to know. All

we were told was that they feared a ‘public backlash’ – a

backlash that had not happened at any venue in any

location all over the world since my world speaking tour

began more than year earlier. This Convention Center has

hosted a G20 Summit. Did they cancel that for fear of a

‘public backlash’? No, they surrounded the place with fences

and rows of armed police. G20 participants calling for

actions that create mass death and devastation must have

their freedom of speech protected, but someone like me

calling for the death and destruction to stop and exposing

those behind it must be silenced. This is but one example of

the gutlessness that is destroying your freedom of speech

and the contempt that these anonymous playground bullies

have for your rights and freedoms. Fortunately, my son

Jaymie, a brilliant event organiser, managed to secure

another venue (with some guts) at very short notice and the

bully boys didn’t win. Canada has the reputation of being a

free and open country when the hidden networks of

manipulation make it anything but. Think of the wolf in

disguise and Little Red Riding Hood – that’s Canada. Free

speech and research is being censored all the time there

and the public never hear about most of it. Even worse is

the self-censorship that comes from the intimidation of

knowing what will happen if you upset the bullies. Anthony

Hall, a tenured professor of globalisation studies at the

University of Lethbridge in Canada, was suspended without

pay or due process for alleged ‘antiSemitism’ after a

campaign to silence him led by Israel-front B’nai B’rith

Canada. He had taught at the university for 25 years and all

he was doing was pursue the truth about world events and

attacks like 9/11. This used to be the role of an academic,

but no longer. The Canadian Association of University

Teachers condemned the censorship and the denial of Hall’s

basic rights, but when did basic rights ever matter to these

censors? For the University of Lethbridge see the Metro

Toronto Convention Center and file both under gutless.

Talking of gutless ... the effect that I am having in

uncovering and circulating suppressed information has

really got the Zionist extremists in a tizzy and their knickers

in a twist. Quickly following the Toronto cancellation came

three more in the UK at the again gutless and disgraceful

Lowry Hotel in Manchester, Gladstone Theatre in the Wirral,

Merseyside, and Sheffield City Hall. The number of Jewish

people in the world is estimated at around 15 million out of

7.5 billion and the vast majority are not active manipulators

for Israel and Revisionist (secret society) Zionism. They will

know little about what is really happening and what is

wrongly done in their name using them as a convenient

front and cover. They are pawns in a game they don’t

understand. However, the few that are left are very

organised and well-funded and form a global network of

groups specifically created to target anyone spilling the

beans on the Israeli regime and its military intelligence

enforcers, Mossad. Whether it be in Germany, Canada,

Britain or wherever these destroyers of freedom lie in wait

to pounce and when they target you it is confirmation that

you must be saying something right and something that

inner-core Zionism doesn’t want the public to hear. All these

groups are playground bullies – emphasis on the playground

because they act like two-year-olds – and childishly

celebrate every ‘victory’ in denying the freedom or

disrupting the lives of their targets. In my opinion they are

very sick. Britain has a core Jewish population of about

270,000 out of about 66 million and the same applies to

them as I said above with the global Jewish community. We

are not talking about Jewish people as a whole, but a cabal

who have as much contempt for Jewish people in general as

they do for everyone else. Witness how the Israeli

government treats most of its own people and how Jewish-

born men and women who challenge the activities of Israel

are viciously libelled, slandered and have their careers

targeted, even destroyed, by being bizarrely labelled

‘antiSemitic’. They are also called ‘self-haters’ for having

opinions and observations that don’t concur with the bully

boys in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Research the background to

American academic Norman Finkelstein and Britain’s Israel-

born Gilad Atzmon for just two examples.

Israel’s network of apologists in Britain includes the

Friends of Israel group within every major political party and

among many other freedom-deleting attack-dogs are the

Campaign Against Antisemitism (CAA) and a group calling

itself the North West Friends of Israel which was behind the

cancellations of my events at the said gutless and

disgraceful Lowry Hotel in Manchester, Gladstone Theatre in

the Wirral, Merseyside, and Sheffield City Hall. They operate

on Twitter with the tag of @ NorthWestFOI. Even when I was a target of Zionist censors in the late 1990s and across the

new Millennium they never went so far as calling me a

‘Holocaust denier’, but they are now getting so desperate as

the truth about the Israeli regime and its global reach comes

to the surface that clearly the decision has been made that

this would be the most effective way to have me silenced.

The label was suddenly used by assets of the Israel censor

network in 2017 in Germany and Ireland and by the CAA

and North West Friends of Israel. It could well have been

included in the single letter to the venue in Toronto which

we are not allowed to see. All these groups work to the

same global blueprint and so the usual sequence unfolded

with the North West Friends of Israel, with its mouthpiece

Raphi Bloom, contacting the Lowry Hotel, Gladstone Theatre

and Sheffield City Hall to assassinate my character with

outrageous misrepresentations and the label of ‘Holocaust

denier’. These gutless venue owners then cancelled the

events without even consulting me for a response to what

they were told and the emails they sent to us to cancel were

remarkable in both their contempt for freedom of speech

and their customers and ticket holders and in how their

wording was so similar and pretty much the same as that

from the Maritim Hotel in Germany. The media, in the form

of at least ITV News, the Manchester Evening News and the

Coventry Evening Telegraph (the latter two owned by the

Trinity Mirror group) then published the same lie without

even asking me to respond and we had the headline ‘Lowry

hotel cancels appearance by Holocaust denier David Icke’. I

contacted all three and asked them to provide the evidence

for this claim and they all took the stories down within

minutes because they had none. They had staggeringly just

taken what the Raphi Bloom group said and repeated it

without seeking my response. Bloom and his censors

gutlessly turned down the chance to debate with me on the

Richie Allen radio show using the same lame excuse as his

like in Ireland: ‘We do not engage with Holocaust deniers’.

Keep saying it, Mr Bloom, and people will believe it through

repetition. That’s the game, right? They just throw their mud

and run and then wait for gutless venues to get down on

their knees. Once one venue bows its head these people go

to others using the earlier cancellations they have secured

as added pressure for them to do the same. My much-use of

the term gutless is intentional because in the end it is not

the censor groups that censor but the gutlessness of venues

who put an easy life before the most basic of human

freedoms. The North West Friends of Israel (as with the CAA)

enthusiastically supported the catastrophic bombing of the

Gaza innocent by the mass-murdering Israeli regime in 2014

which according to UN figures killed 2,200 Palestinians (551

of them children), injured 11,000 (3,000 children), made

20,000 homes uninhabitable and displaced 500,000. This

Bloom group is notorious for their seek-and-destroy tactics

against anyone supporting the Palestinian cause including

doctors. They would never be banned from speaking

anywhere – the venues would not dare – but I am fair game

for speaking the words of peace and not violence. The group

says it was created – irony of ironies – after protests against

a Jewish shop owner in Manchester who was selling Israeli

beauty products. The North West Friends of Israel was

formed in response to attempts to stop a Jewish man going

about his business and then proceeded to prevent those

they don’t like from going about theirs. They will not be

even nearly conscious enough to see the shocking levels of

hypocrisy that this requires and most certainly would never

be able to compute this line by George Orwell: ‘If liberty

means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what

they do not want to hear.’ But, of course, liberty is the last

thing they want to see. The deletion of freedom of

expression will go on while there are gutless people like

those that run the Metro Toronto Convention Center, Lowry

Hotel, Gladstone Theatre, Sheffield City Hall, Carl Benz

Arena and the Maritim Hotel group. In other words, it will go

on. It is vital that Jewish people as a whole call out what is

being done in their name and largely without their

knowledge because the actions of the few are blamed on

everyone else by the inability of many to see that judging a

group instead of highlighting the actual perpetrators is

ridiculous. Israel bullies are not just the enemy of freedom,

but the enemy of Jewish people. Israel-born activist Gilad

Atzmon wrote:

... it is certain that a growing number of Brits have been

subjected to an orchestrated slanderous campaign run by

Zionist institutions that are funded by British taxpayer

money such as CST [Community Security Trust] and CAA.

These organisations attack Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour

party, venues, intellectuals, artists, musicians, authors

and anyone else they decide has dared to point at Israeli

brutality and extensive Jewish political lobbying in Britain.

If Britain still cares for values of tolerance and intellectual

exchange, it better spend some taxpayer money

defending its citizens, gentiles as well as Jews, from these

foreign bodies. And if Britain truly cares for its Jews, it

should protect them from the unfortunate consequences

of the CST, CAA and other Israeli lobbies operating in our

midst.

These groups act in ways that make many angry with

what is being done and some wrongly equate the

perpetrator groups with all Jewish people. These groups

then have the nerve to complain about ‘antiSemitism’ when

they are a major cause. Their targets are mainly in the

alternative media, but not always. Columnist Kevin Myers

was fired by the Irish version of The Sunday Times for

alleged ‘antiSemitic’ comments he made in July 2017 in an

article about the way the BBC pays male presenters more

than female. Myers wrote:

I note that two of the best-paid women presenters in the

BBC – Claudia Winkleman and Vanessa Feltz, with whose,

no doubt, sterling work I am tragically unacquainted – are

Jewish. Good for them. Jews are not generally noted for

their insistence on selling their talent for the lowest

possible price, which is the most useful measure there is

of inveterate, lost-with-all-hands stupidity. I wonder, who

are their agents?

My point is not about what Myers wrote, but that had the

word ‘Jewish’ instead been ‘American’, ‘Chinese’, ‘French’,

‘Russian’, ‘Colombian’ or ‘Canadian’ he would not have been

instantly fired, his column removed and an apology

published. The Jewish population of Ireland is about 2,500 in

a total Irish population of around 4.8 million. What is the

power of Zionism that ensures that its advocates are not

treated like everyone else? Yet again leading the charge

against Myers was the Campaign Against Antisemitism

(CAA) which was red-faced with outrage and condemnation

in its perpetual and professional victimhood. The Jewish

Representative Council of Ireland defended Myers from CAA

and other attacks and said that branding him as either an

anti-Semite or Holocaust denier was ‘an absolute distortion

of the facts’. But then that is what these Israel attack-dog

organisations are there to do – distort facts to serve their

agenda (the inner-core Zionist agenda) of censorship and

intimidation. All I am asking for is equal treatment for

everyone no matter what their race, group, culture, creed or

background and that is not what is happening. The sacking

of Kevin Myers is steeped with irony because he has taken a

pro-Israeli stance in many articles over the years and

perhaps he now understands why people have become so

sick of the Israel lobby and its systematic censorship. It is

also further evidence of the extremes to which Zionist

censors are targeting absolutely anyone who steps out of

their line. Those who are so terrified of what someone else

will say, to the point they will go to these lengths to silence

them, always have an enormous amount to hide. It is not

often that I quote Shakespeare, but this one is perfect: ‘The

lady doth protest too much, methinks.’

There is another centre of planned censorship to note in

the form of Amazon which is taking over online shopping

and expanding into all retail areas. Amazon began as an

online bookstore and now dominates the book market with a

gathering pace and has put a vast number of independent

book shops and publishers out of business worldwide. This

has always been the plan and once total domination is

achieved the widespread censorship of what can and can’t

be published and sold will begin – Facebook and Google

have been through the same sequence and Amazon,

Facebook and Google come as one unit if the truth be told.

There was basically a no-censorship policy at Amazon in the

beginning but now after pressure from the Zionist lobby

books questioning the official story of the Holocaust and

those they dub ‘hate material’ are being banned. As the

definition of ‘hate’ continues to expand so will be the range

of banned books until ultimately they will include anything

that questions the official version of any subject. This is

where we are going and Amazon is the major vehicle for this

modern-day book burning under the leadership of arrogance

personified, Jeff Bezos. It goes without saying, but I will

anyway, that Zionist books of racism and hate with regard

to Palestinians are not being censored. It has always

seemed to me that for books to be banned and authors

jailed for having another version of history is truly bizarre

and deeply sinister – especially when opposing versions of

history are given free rein. Why can’t we just have an open

debate on everything and let people have the freedom to

decide what they think? But that is freedom and that just

wouldn’t do in a tyranny. A definition I would offer of

‘tyranny’ is ‘any society that seeks to ban the circulation of

information that would awaken the population to the

tyranny’. See, so ironically, the book-burning Nazis for a

start.

Shoot the messenger – delete the

message Highlight Israel’s apartheid state and there is

apoplexy. A report by the United Nations Economic and

Social Commission for Western Asia in early 2017 concluded

that ‘Israel has established an apartheid regime that

dominates the Palestinian people as a whole’ and found that

‘beyond a reasonable doubt ... Israel is guilty of policies and

practices that constitute the crimes of apartheid’ in

accordance with the definition in international law. Zionism’s

‘claim to Palestine as the exclusive homeland of the Jewish

people rests on an expressly racial conception of both

groups’, the report said. ‘The mission of preserving Israel as

a Jewish state has inspired or even compelled Israel to

pursue several general racial policies.’ These policies

included ‘demographic engineering, in order to establish

and maintain an overwhelming Jewish majority in Israel’ and

‘a range of other policies designed to restrict the size of the

Palestinian population.’ The report said full political rights

are given only to Jews: ‘As in any racial democracy such a

majority allows the trappings of democracy – democratic

elections, a strong legislature – without threatening any loss

of hegemony by the dominant racial group.’ Quite simply

the UN report said that Israel is a country founded on

racism, and this is the same regime that accuses everyone

else of racism via its global network of Zionist attack-dog

organisations. The Israeli government has approved a bill to

officially designate the country as a Jewish state and make

Hebrew the only official language, but it’s not racial

domination or anything. Examples of Israeli apartheid are

legion including the policy of demolishing family homes of

Palestinians that Israel accuses of terrorism (collective

punishment that is illegal under international law) while the

same policy is not applied to Israeli terrorism against

Palestinians. Avigdor Lieberman, the Israel Defence Minister

and Zionist extremist, denied official compensation to an

eight-year-old, Ahmed Dawabshe, whose father, mother and

baby brother were burned to death by illegal Jewish settler

terrorists who firebombed their home in the Israeli-occupied

West Bank. The arsonists left slogans on the wall alongside

a Star of David which said ‘long live the Messiah’ and

‘revenge’. Compensation is offered to all Jewish victims of

terrorism, but not Ahmed, who suffered second-degree

burns to 60 percent of his body. Two years later at the time

of writing those who killed his family and scarred him for life

still have not been tried. No apartheid? No evil? The UN

Western Asia report backed the BDS boycott and urged

national governments to ‘support boycott, divestment and

sanctions activities and respond positively to calls for such

initiatives.’ They should not pin their hopes on that in Britain

and the United States where the governments are doing all

they can to block any boycott.

The hypocrisy of Zionism has no limits and nor, it seems,

does its global reach (Fig 435). Days after the apartheid

report was published UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres

ordered it to be withdrawn. Under Secretary General Rima

Khalaf, who led the Commission that produced the report,

resigned over pressure to unpublish what she believed to be

true. Israeli UN ambassador Danny Danon led the charge

against Khalaf with America and Britain as always in tow –

especially under Trump who appointed the vacuous Israel

apologist Nikki Haley, who does everything but drape

herself in the Israeli flag, as US ambassador to the UN.

Danon praised Guterres for his action and welcomed the

resignation of Khalaf: ‘The time has come to put an end to

those using their status within the UN to promote anti-Israel

activity.’ They love censorship to the point of orgasm.

Danon, who later became vice president of the United

Nations General Assembly, said that ‘anti-Israel activists do

not belong in the UN.’ Nope – only pro-Israel ones. The

biggest joke of all came when Secretary-General Guterres





said the report was not withdrawn because of its content,

but because Khalaf did not consult him first (so he could

have blocked publication altogether). Any excuse will do

except the truth. See ‘we are unable to accommodate a

large public event’.

F igure 4 3 5 : One rule for Israel (and the US/UK and NATO

countries) and

another for everyone else.

F igure 4 3 6 : Israel’s golden rule.

It is correct that as a Jordanian national Khalaf would see

Israel from her angle, but her point about Israel running an

apartheid regime is so obvious it is laughable to deny. Khalaf

was accused of libelling Israel by actually telling the truth

and reality has no meaning in these matters. The rule is

simple: What Israel (the Rothschilds) wants Israel (the

Rothschilds) gets (Fig 436). They could have gone down the

Peter Tatchell route and argued and exposed the alleged

untruths in the report, but open debate on something that is

so clearly happening is the last place they want to go. It is

so much easier to get backbone-deleted lackey place-people

to silence the opposition. Palestinians gave Khalaf an award

for her courage, a move which Israel condemned as

‘outrageous’. Israel apologists are in a permanent state of

outrage. Those who have directly experienced apartheid

certainly agree with the Khalaf report conclusions. South

African MPs refused to meet an Israeli delegation in 2017

and Nelson Mandela’s grandson, Mandla Mandela, now an

MP with the African National Congress (ANC), said:

‘Parliament has stayed true to Nelson Mandela’s

commitment to stand by the Palestinian cause until

Palestine is free.’ He called for the Israeli ambassador to be

sent home and the South African ambassador to Israel to be

withdrawn and he went on: ‘History calls upon us to take

similar measures to those taken by freedom, justice and

peace loving communities that supported the global anti-

apartheid movement against the brutal and illegitimate

South African regime.’ A later United Nations Economic and

Social Commission for Western Asia report, not involving

Rima Khalaf, accused Israeli forces of killing 63 Palestinians,

including 19 children, and wounding 2,276 Palestinians,

including 562 children, between April 2016 and March 2017

including what it called ‘extrajudicial executions’. Danny

Danon was immediately on the case the moment someone

typed in ‘fury’ and ‘outrage’ and pressed enter. Zionism was

running the political correctness program before the world



had even heard of it and provided the blueprint for all that

has followed. They are terrified of open debate and the

careers of even Jewish academics have been destroyed

when they have spoken out against the behaviour of Israel

and the Saturnic Rothschild Mafia at the Sabbatean Frankist

secret society core of Zionism (Fig 437). We only need to

look at Israel itself to see where this is heading for the rest

of us. Bloggers and social media posters are required by law

to have their words screened before posting. A bill passing

through the Israeli parliament will order Facebook and other

social media sites to delete content the Israeli regime claims

to be ‘incitement’. Who decides what this is? They do. This

will, of course, include legitimate criticism and target the



most basic freedom of speech. Palestinians are routinely

charged for posting comments about Israel oppression and

even poets are jailed for expressing their art to make

statements about fundamental injustice. None of these

Zionist censors or political correctness supporters in general

want to see Tatchell’s counter-their-arguments strategy. To

do so would require open debate and that is precisely what

political correctness is there to stop, to allow censorship to

control the narrative (Fig 438).

F igure 4 3 7 : Sums it up, really.

F igure 4 3 8 : Literally anything.

Upping the ante The next inevitable extension of

Zionist censorship came with the announcement in 2017

that the notorious Anti-Defamation League (ADL) was

planning ‘a state-of-the-art command centre’ in Silicon

Valley to monitor everything online that it decides is ‘hate’.

The definition of ‘hate’ in this context: Anything that

criticises Israel and anything the ADL decides is ‘hate’

because its censorship suits the Web agenda. ADL chief

executive Jonathan Greenblatt revealed the establishment

of the new censorship centre and never one to exaggerate

he is quoted as comparing the alleged growth of

‘antiSemitism’ in the United States to that of Nazi Germany.

The behaviour of Israel and Revisionist Zionism is naturally

never considered a contributory factor to people being

pissed off with them. Greenblatt was a Special Assistant to

Barack Obama. The Omidyar Network of e-Bay founder

Pierre Omidyar is providing the ‘seed funding’ for the project

which Greenblatt says will write reports, compile data, and

‘provide insights to government and policy makers’. The

centre will use the ‘best-in-class technology’, according to

Greenblatt, ‘to provide insights to government and policy

makers’. Pass that through an Orwellian translation unit and

it becomes ‘to tell people what information and opinion they

can and cannot circulate’. I’m sure that Zionist owned-and-

controlled Facebook, Google/Alphabet and YouTube will be

most enthusiastic in their support. At the same time the

Israeli government is expanding its censorship reach and

hands out scholarships at its universities to students

agreeing to make pro-Israel Facebook posts and tweets to

foreign audiences. They don’t reveal their government

connection and make their posts seem independent and

spontaneous. The ADL, an outgrowth of the Rothschild-

created B’nai B’rith (‘Sons of the Covenant’), led the whole

campaign to create the offence of ‘hate crime’ in the first

place which was a goal of the Zionist Frankfurt School. I

have detailed the history and background of the Apple-

funded ADL in other books, but basically in yet another

laughable inversion the ‘Anti-Defamation’ League sets out

to defame anyone challenging the behaviour of Israel and

its global network of connected organisations. The ADL,

along with the American Jewish Committee’s Project



Interchange and the Jewish Institute for National Security

Affairs, has been paying for hundreds of US police officers to

be trained in Israel and occupied Palestine to learn Israeli

methods of violent and racist military ‘law enforcement’.

They then return to America to train their colleagues and

the result has since been seen on the streets of America.

The St Louis Chapter of Jewish Voices for Peace has been

vehement in its opposition to the ADL and the Israel



connection

to

US

police.

A

statement

said:

F igure 4 3 9 : Global manipulation by a Rothschild front operation

claiming to be

the government of a country.

We have cringed as the ADL positions itself locally as a

champion of racial profiling legislation while sending US

police – including former St. Louis County Police Chief Tim

Fitch – to train on population control in Israel, an apartheid

police state with more than 60 years of sophisticated

expertise in racial profiling, mass incarceration, settler

colonialism, and ethnic cleansing targeting the non-Jewish

indigenous Palestinian people.

F igure 4 4 0 : Why is it ‘racist’ to ask why a country of just eight

million people is always given special treatment no matter what it

does?

‘Anti-racists’ at the ADL did surveillance work for the

apartheid regime in South Africa with whom Israel was

extremely close. Israel agencies and military intelligence

arm Mossad have made an art form of setting up front

organisations and infiltrating others to serve their interests

(Fig 439). Israeli newspaper Haaretz uncovered official

documents in 2017 that revealed how the Israel branch of

Amnesty International was a front for the foreign ministry

from the late 1960s to the mid-1970s. Tip and iceberg come

to mind. Documents exposed how the Amnesty branch was

funded by the Israeli government and took instructions from

the foreign ministry. Buying bias, I think would sum it up,

and this is going on worldwide on a grand scale.

Al Jazeera, the Arabic television channel based in Qatar,

used hidden cameras in 2016 to reveal how an official from

the Israeli Embassy in London was manipulating British

politics through front organisations and the Friends of Israel

network in the major political parties. Embassy senior

political officer Shai Masot was caught on camera talking

about a list of British politicians he wanted to ‘take down’ for

their stance on Israel including Foreign Office Minister Alan

Duncan. Joan Ryan, chair of the Labour Party Friends of

Israel who appeared with Shai Masot in the film, has been a

constant and vocal critic of party leader Jeremy Corbyn. The

British government and ‘opposition parties’ were virtually

silent on the exposure to take down a government minister,

but think of the global outrage if it had been Russia (Fig

440). At the time of writing the US/Israel-controlled Saudi

Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain are

seeking to close down Al Jazeera. Israel announced (of

course) that it was doing the same in that country. Zionist

censorship is not about protecting people from racism. It is

about silencing the opposition and not just in terms of Israel

either. Zionism at its controlling core has a much bigger

agenda than that. A bill proposed by Zionist New York

Assemblyman David I. Weprin gives you a feel for where

they want this to go. The bill would require ‘inaccurate’,

‘irrelevant’, ‘inadequate’ or ‘excessive’ statements to be

removed within 30 days of a request from the subject of the

statements/posts concerned. Failure to do so would cost

search engines or the source of the statement statutory

damages of $250 per day plus attorney fees. Weprin is

referred to as a ‘liberal’. Inclusion of the term ‘irrelevant’ is

to instigate George Orwell’s memory hole where information

about the ‘past’ can be deleted. We already have this in

Europe thanks to EU judges who ruled that anyone can

demand that search engines cease to list information about

them that they don’t want people to see. This means that

while the information is still there no one can find it without

basically knowing the information beforehand to help them

in their search. Weprin’s bill specifically includes the

censorship of content that ‘is no longer material to current

public debate or discourse’. Who decides that? They do.

Delete the ‘past’ to manipulate perception in the ‘present’.

Yet another humdinger in terms of the real motivation is the

clause that says the content should be deleted ‘... without

replacing such removed ... content with any disclaimer [or]

takedown notice’. All trace of what you have censored and

the fact that it has been censored must be kept from the

public. Mr Weprin and other supporters of this bill – you are

a disgrace. A Washington Post article said:

So, under this bill, newspapers, scholarly works, copies of

books

on

Google

Books

and

Amazon,

online

encyclopaedias (Wikipedia and others) – would all would

have to be censored whenever a judge and jury found (or

the author expected them to find) that the speech was ‘no

longer material to current public debate or discourse’

(except when it was ‘related to convicted felonies’ or

‘legal matters relating to violence’ in which the subject

played a ‘central and substantial’ role).

And of course the bill contains no exception even for

material of genuine historical interest; after all, such

speech would have to be removed if it was ‘no longer

material to current public debate.’ Nor is there an

exception for autobiographic material, whether in a book,

on a blog or anywhere else. Nor is there an exception for

political figures, prominent business people and others.

This is where we are going and the scale of censorship by

these Archontic forces of oppression has hardly started yet.

Political censorship is well advanced around the world with

politicians facing the PC police if their views don’t conform.

South Africa’s opposition Democratic Alliance Party charged

one of its number with misconduct for saying in a tweet that

colonialism was not all bad and some good things came

from it. Party leader Mmusi Maimane said the views could

harm the image of the party. Not possible, surely, compared

with him. The European Parliament is now cutting live

debate feeds, removing recordings of offensive remarks and

imposing fines of $9,500 on MEPs they claim are guilty of

‘defamatory, racist or xenophobic language or behaviour’.

Naï ve politicians supporting censorship of all kinds do not

realise that it will all eventually apply to them and in fact is

already doing so.

Sleepwalk into tyranny The Archontic Reptilian

control system is a multidimensional, multi-levelled, multi-

faceted and absolutely incessant perceptual onslaught on

the human mind to create fragmentation of thought and

emotion and to implant a sense of powerless isolation.

People are isolated from other ways of looking at the world

and this creates the desired perceptual stagnation.

Suppression of free expression becomes more extreme to

prevent the circulation of information that exposes the

conspiracy and its programming. What we are seeing on

student campuses is the precursor for how the whole of

human society is planned to be with people unable to say

anything that The System has not approved and mind-

altering and suppressing drugs handed out like confetti. The

scale of psychological drugs in circulation for adults and

children is already enormous and the ultimate plan is to

have everyone drugged by law (‘to keep the peace’) and

have this technologically tracked. Microchipped pills that tell

a doctor when they have been taken now exist and making

them compulsory is all that remains. Pharmaceutical drugs

scramble the brain and on a waveform level impact upon

the waveform standing wave oscillation and throw the body

out kilter in terms of health, thought, emotion and most

crucially a connection to ‘out there’. The waveform impact is

what primarily matters and the El-lite know that.

Political correctness and triggering are fast breaking out

from academia into mainstream society. Comedy has been

devastated and in many ways destroyed by PC zealotry

which has no sense of humour and would be mortified if

asked to laugh at itself. Most so-called ‘alternative’

comedians who supposed to be ‘anti-Establishment’ stay

well within the bounds of the progressive Establishment

while claiming to be fearless. Comedians bow to the PC

tyranny when they should be looking in its face and refusing

to blink. You don’t want to hear my jokes? Then don’t come.

Then go to another channel. The Washington Times reported

how it’s now routine for publishers to have ‘sensitivity

readers’ to screen new books for words that indicate bias,

stereotypes or negatively-charged language about gender,

race, disability or sexual orientation and to check if they are

‘culturally untactful’. I don’t know what they would do with

this one. Call for oxygen, I guess. The Spanish government

is targeting artists, students and the public in general with

extraordinary levels of censorship which has included a 21-

year-old college student accused by a Spanish National

Court prosecutor of ‘glorifying terrorism and humiliating

victims of terrorism’, according to German news website

Deutsche Welle. Her ‘crime’ was tweeting a ‘joke about a

dictator’ and the court was seeking a three-year prison

sentence. Two street puppeteers in Madrid were arrested in

2016 after a performance making fun of local police, who

couldn’t see that arresting them merely confirmed how right

the puppeteers had been to take the piss in the first place.

The world is going into diversity lockdown driven by the

agents of diversity and this inversion is not by chance. If you

want to run drugs without being suspected do it through an

anti-drug agency. If you want to destroy diversity use a

rabble and mob constantly screaming about the need for

more diversity. It’s all a mind game.

There are still academics standing up against the

gathering tide, often to the detriment of careers, but many

have also become torch-carriers so consumed by their own

self-righteousness that they campaign for what is designed

to silence their own profession and global society in general,

just as politicians campaign for what is eventually planned

to silence them. A bloke called Professor Thom Brooks, head

of Durham University Law School, told a UK parliamentary

committee that there should be a ‘Hate Crime Offenders

Register’ similar to the sex offenders register that restricts

access to jobs. ‘Anyone on [the Register] could be restricted

from working with children and/or working in certain

professions’, the intellectual colossus insisted. ‘This seems

sensible, mirrors current policies in place and would help

send a clearer signal of how serious these offences are.’

How would this scan in terms of fairness and freedom when

the definition of what constitutes a ‘hate crime’ is constantly

expanded? The hate industry is being fuelled by claims of

‘record levels of hate crime’ and that Britain ‘is in the grip of

an epidemic of intolerance’. Evidence? Er, well, er, er.

Maybe they mean figures like those supplied by a Zionist

private security organisation called the Community Security

Trust (CST) which makes its money from Jewish people who

fear ‘rising antiSemitism’ because of figures issued by the

same CST. The organisation has more than 65 staff based in

offices in London, Manchester and Leeds and the then Home

Secretary Theresa May gave them £ 13.4 million of

taxpayers’ money in 2016. CST ‘antiSemitism’ figures are

reported every year by the media without the context of

where they come from. Activist Gilad Atzmon wrote in an

article headed ‘Hate PLC’:

A mere few days after the British government vowed to

wire millions of pounds to the CST, the number of

‘antiSemitic incidents’ rose by 30% to over 100 incidents

a month. The results, at least according to the CST’s

statistics, are that the more public money is allocated to

fight antiSemitism, the more antiSemitic the Brits become.

If this is the case, the cure for British antiSemitism may be

within reach – to fight antiSemitism, deprive the CST and

similar organisations of taxpayers’ money! AntiSemitism

is not really a social phenomenon, it is instead a multi-

million pound industry. The more we spend on the fight

against it, the more incidents are ‘recorded’ to justify

further spending.

I am not saying that racism does not exist – of course it

does and they are idiots obsessed with a body that doesn’t

physically exist. Some of the worst and most grotesque

racism can indeed be found at the extremes of Zionism. I

am saying that racism is being exaggerated and now

covertly and psychologically encouraged through terror

attacks to justify the ‘hate crime’ lockdown on free

expression. Screaming headlines about headstones toppled

in a ‘hate crime’ at a Brooklyn Jewish cemetery were

followed by a police assessment that no such crime took

place and the damage was likely caused by high winds,

eroded soil and neglect. Let us not forget either about

‘antiSemitic attacks’ carried out by Jewish people for

propaganda purposes. In March 2017 came the headline

‘Israeli man, 19, arrested in connection with threats against

Jewish Community Centers in U.S. and other nations’. The

arrest came after a joint operation between the FBI and

Israeli police and involved bomb threats made over a six-

month period against Israeli institutions in several countries

by the duel US-Israeli citizen. His father was also arrested

and police said the 19-year-old was found to have a Bitcoin

account worth millions of shekels. The Common Dreams

website uncovered a ‘Jewish Harvard graduate in his thirties’

who was trolling the site with anti-Jewish hate and then

challenging himself under another alias to give the illusion

of an ‘antiSemitic’ argument between two different people.

This Jewish man said that Hitler should have finished the job

and killed all Jews and then attacked himself under another

name. A Canadian man became infamous for posting

horrible racist comments under anonymous log-in names

and then reporting the site to the authorities for posting

what he posted and any replies agreeing with him. The idea

is to discredit discussion and the website. Government

agencies and corporations now have whole armies of paid

trolls who work to discredit and disrupt website discourse on

subjects they want people to reject.

A bedrock of any police state is to have the target

population report on the target population and we have this

policy instigated on campus and wider society. The

Washington Examiner, an American political website,

revealed how college administrators are encouraging

students to report each other and academic staff for

‘inappropriate speech’. These are classic PC terms –

appropriate and inappropriate. In this context what do these

words mean? They are entirely subjective; what is

considered

‘appropriate’

by

one

person

will

be

‘inappropriate’ to another. But they are meant to lack clarity

because it allows the widest possible interpretation of them

by those in authority. The Examiner said that 230 colleges

had ‘Bias Response Teams’ to investigate claims of offensive

speech most of which are made anonymously. This ‘bias’ is

defined by whatever the PC Mafia interpret that to be.

Snitching on people anonymously behind their back is

preparing students to do so throughout their lives as

described by George Orwell. The Internet was supposed to

be an extension of freedom but through algorithms and

control by global Web corporations this can now be seen as

a temporary illusion as censorship becomes the norm. The

Net was sold as a means of free communication when the

idea was to create a vehicle for total surveillance that so

dominated public discourse as other sources disappeared

that they could control everything that people say, see and

hear by direct and algorithmic censorship. The Trump

Administration’s plan to end so-called net-neutrality and

equal access to the Internet is all part of this. The move,

instigated by Ajit Pai, Chairman of the Federal

Communication Commission (FCC), would allow corporations

to block content, and establish fast and slow lanes for lawful

content which they could not before. The ‘free’ Internet was

just the selling point, not the way it was ever planned to end

up.

I wrote in books in the 1990s about a global computer

system in which the El-lite programmed their desired

outcome and the computer would produce the sequence of

events necessary to achieve that end by essentially

predicting public responses to each step. Now that very

system is in the open, far more advanced and called the

‘Sentient World Simulation’ based at the Synthetic

Environment for Analysis and Simulations Laboratory at

Purdue University in Indiana, which is mass-gathering data

to predict (and manipulate) human behaviour. More about



this later when the term ‘synthetic’ will also become very

relevant. Add to this personal data, beliefs and behaviour

traits compiled on the population globally by the US

National Security Agency (NSA) and Homeland Security at

the Intelligence Community Comprehensive National

Cybersecurity Initiative Data Center in Utah through the

collection and algorithmic processing of emails, phone calls,

Internet browsing, social media posts, credit card

transactions, parking tickets and receipts, travel records,

book buys and other actions and communications (Fig 441).

Together you have all the information you need for superfast

and super-advanced artificial intelligence computers to

predict collective response and outcomes. Then trigger the

right event to trigger the predicted response to secure the

desired result and societal change. Are people so naï ve to

believe that the colossal (and ever increasing) scale of

surveillance and freedom deletion imposed on humanity

worldwide is to stop terrorism? That is not the reason, only

the excuse and the more terrorism they can stage the more

effective becomes the excuse. Humanity has to break free

from programmed perceptions of the possible and start

thinking anew. I can tell you from personal experience that

once you do that the world looks a very different place.

F igure 4 4 1 : National Security Agency global data-gathering centre

in Utah.

Must-knows I will conclude this chapter with two

advancing-the-spell techniques essential to understanding

world events and the battle for human perception. I have

long-called them Problem-Reaction-Solution and the

Totalitarian Tiptoe. These operate as one unit and they

constantly transform global society by manipulating the

population to support (or at least not to effectively oppose)

the Archontic agenda. They are devastatingly simple and so

I can be brief. Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) involves first

covertly creating a problem. This could be a terrorist attack,

financial collapse, political upheaval, the possibilities are

endless. Control of the mainstream media is vital to stage

two when you tell the public the version of the problem that

you want them to believe in terms of who or what was

responsible. This could not happen if we had a questioning,

researching media prepared to critically think outside of the

box; but because we don’t stage two is a breeze as excuses-

for-journalists repeat the official narrative usually without

challenge. The manipulators are seeking a public reaction of

fear, outrage and a demand that ‘something must be done’

which opens the door for stage three and the final sting

when those who have covertly created the problem and

named the fake villain then openly offer the solutions to the

problem they have themselves covertly created. These

always involve changes in the law, deletions of privacy,

greater surveillance and often wars that advance the

Archontic agenda for global tyranny in response to the

manufactured problem. When I say they ‘have themselves

created’ I mean hidden agents of the Web and not

necessarily the bewildered puppets you see in the public

arena. I will highlight many examples of this technique later,

but an obvious case is 9/11. If you want to launch a ‘war on

terror’ to regime change target countries then set up a

massive attack on your own soil, blame Islamic terrorists

and most of the world will be cheering when you start

dropping bombs on Islamic countries that you planned to

target all along. If you want to justify bombing Syria just say

that President Assad is using chemical weapons on this own

people and the claim alone will be enough for the media to

repeat in a frenzy of condemnation with no need for actual

evidence. Data scientist Adam Kramer, who worked on one

of the Facebook behaviour-changing experiments, said

emotions are contagious: ‘When positive expressions [posts]

were reduced, people produced fewer positive posts and

more negative posts; when negative expressions were

reduced, the opposite pattern occurred.’ The ‘reaction’

response in Problem-Reaction-Solution is all about the

manipulation of emotion. PRS ‘problems’ are designed to

create collective trauma (very much involving the reptilian

brain) and traumatised people are the most psychologically

suggestable. There is also a version that I call No-Problem-

Reaction-Solution when you don’t need a real problem just

the perception of one. Claims about weapons of mass

destruction in Iraq, that they knew didn’t exist, is an

outstanding example. The antidote for PRS is a simple

question: Who benefits? Who benefits from me believing the

version of this situation that the authorities and media are

telling me to believe? Beneficiaries will invariably be anyone

who wishes to advance an agenda of human control and

justify ‘solutions’ to take the community, country or world in

that direction. Politicians and economists also seek to make

you terrified of what they don’t want to happen so that you

won’t want it either. Witness the campaign against Brexit.

Mainstream journalists, or those that claim to be, cannot

contemplate such manipulation because of terminal naï vety

and the arrogance of ignorance. There are few better cases

than BBC radio presenter Nicky treat-those-questioning-

human-caused-climate-change-with-distainand-we-must-

remove-Assad-he-is-a war-criminal Campbell. He reported

that two Muslim men had told him they thought that

government agencies were behind the suicide bomb attack

that killed 22 people and injured 250 as they left a

Manchester concert venue in May 2017. The government

immediately used the attack to justify the deployment of

troops for domestic law enforcement and announced plans

to further censor information, views and opinions on the

Internet. Campbell was incredulous about what the Muslim

pair had told him: ‘They said it was the government!’, he

cried, unable to hide his contempt. ‘Government’ is a term

meaning a colossal number of people and agencies and

most them are well beyond public awareness, but in

Campbell’s mind ‘government’ would have meant only

those we can see. Then he delivered a humdinger: ‘Where is

their critical thinking?’ You couldn’t make it up but with him

you don’t have to. The El-lite get away with what they do

because people like Campbell don’t have the capacity to

critically think and look at anything from a different angle.

The BBC pays him up to £ 450,000 a year because he’s



perfect for them. Campbell was also bewildered at how the

Muslim lads lacked trust in government, which should be his

job, but isn’t (Fig 442). On the same day the ‘progressive’

Establishment ‘activist’ Shami Chakrabarti urged people not

to voice ‘conspiracy theories’ about the Manchester attack.

To think this lady, a member of the unelected House of

Lords, was once the head of Liberty, an organisation that

claims to protect freedoms and human rights. Here was

another ‘progressive’ insisting that everyone must be as

clueless as them.

F igure 4 4 2 : Postage Stamp Consensus personified.

Understanding where they want to take the world is the

most effective way of decoding PRS. Does the solution take

them closer to the police state and centralisation of power?

PRS manipulation can also be a double-bluff. I watched an

old edition of the UK police drama New Tricks in which a

British intelligence officer ordered a covert investigation into

a murder and led police investigators to believe their

findings would be covered up to help a company at the

expense of its pension fund and the ‘little people’. The

intelligence officer talked privately about how it was

possible to predict behaviour if you knew those involved.

One of the investigation team leaked the findings they

believed were to be covered up and the programme ended

with the intelligence official telling his bosses that the

mission has been accomplished. They had wanted the

information leaked to damage the company concerned

without it coming from the intelligence network. Human

mental and emotional responses to various stimuli are

studied in enormous detail by The System to predict

behaviour and they know how to trigger behaviour and

responses required at any point. Making society ever more

regimented in mind and emotion means people are more

predictable and more manipulatable with PRS. I see this

constantly with those of the political Right, Left and Centre

who think they are challenging the government and the

Establishment while doing exactly what they want.

Behaviour of progressives in relation to Donald Trump is a

current example. They think they are protesting against the

Establishment when in fact divide and rule and focusing

attention on the twigs and not the forest is just what the El-

lite want to happen. Observe the outcomes of these

situations. Everything else is detail. Never mind what was

said. What has actually happened? What has changed? Who

benefits?

The Totalitarian Tiptoe technique is the stablemate of PRS

in which you start at A with the intent of reaching Z (the

complete Archontic enslavement of humanity). Each A, B

and C is a step towards that goal made possible by Problem-

Reaction-Solution. The trick is to make people believe that

each stage is happening randomly and in and of itself. They

must perceive that the tiptoes are unconnected when they

are fundamentally connected and heading in a clear

direction to those with a mind to see. This how the EEC or

Common Market was transformed step by step into today’s

centralised bureaucratic dictatorship known as the European

Union. The EU as it has become was planned at least since

the early decades of the 20th century (see ... And The Truth

Shall Set You Free and The Perception Deception). Jean

Monnet, the so-called ‘father’ of the EU project, said in a

letter to a friend in 1952:

Europe’s nations should be guided towards the superstate

without their people understanding what is happening.

This can be accomplished by successive steps, each

disguised as having an economic purpose, but which will

eventually and irreversibly lead to federation.

This is how the Totalitarian Tiptoe works and together with

Problem-Reaction-Solution they create a perception

deception of incredible power to transform society down to

the finest detail. The world we live in today is largely down

to them and to the censorship, suppression and

marginalisation of free thought, speech and opinion which

challenge the official narrative. All of these things are

connected.

Postscript: The European Union, which jumps on all alleged

‘antiSemitism’, featured an Israeli ‘comedian’ called Avishai

Ivri in a 2017 official video promoting EU-Israel relations.

This is the same Ivri who has said: ‘Fuck it, wipe out Gaza’;

‘Are Palestinians a nation?’ – ‘They’re shit’; ‘... the

Palestinians are Nazis ... They haven’t built gas chambers

yet ... but they’re definitely Nazis’; ‘Here’s a strategy that

hasn’t been tried out yet: 1,000 Arabs killed for each one of

our people killed ... I think they owe us 5,000 from last

week.’ Ivri has also said:

You’re always asking [us] ‘what’s your solution?’ What’s

your solution? Hello?? We don’t shout ‘Death to the Arabs’

because it rhymes! We shout it because it’s our solution!

We fucking write it with spray on the wall! How secret do

you think we keep our solution?

But don’t worry, Zionists can’t be racists, it’s the law

(literally so). The EU was embarrassed into taking down the

video, but I don’t want Ivri or anyone else censored. I want

the world to know the scale and depth of the racism of

those who constantly cry ‘racism’ and I want their hypocrisy

and efforts to silence the global population called out and

exposed. Thank you, Mr Ivri, for your contribution.

Postscript ( 2 ) : After the main body of this book was

completed came the inevitable announcement by the

Zionist-owned Google and YouTube that they were changing

their guidelines to openly target ‘conspiracy theories’

(anything that exposes the official narrative for which

Google is merely a tool) and ‘hate speech’ (ditto).

‘Conspiracy theories’ – a term promoted by the Google

seed-funding CIA – are defined as websites contradicting

what are called ‘well established historical and scientific

facts’. How many such ‘facts’, which were once accepted,

are now shown to be ludicrously inaccurate? One after the

other is the answer. Challenging them is how we move on.

This is Orwell on steroids and the ultra-Zionist Anti-

Defamation League (funded by Apple) has been called in by

Zionist-owned Google and YouTube as one of the censors. If

people can’t see what is happening now with the calculated

suppression of information – they never will.





Another prominent Zionist-controlled and immensely well-

funded US ‘anti-hate’, label-them-all-Nazis, censorship front

is the ironically named Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC).

This was exposed in August 2017 for funnelling millions into

offshore accounts and paying its executives like Zionist

president and CEO Richard Cohen more than $350,000 a

year. American TV host Tucker Carlson, with an admirable

record of calling out free speech destroyers, described the

Apple-funded SPLC as ‘deeply corrupt, dishonest and

loathsome’. Yes, and not only them, either.

‘In presence of the Moon nobody sees stars’ – A mit

K alantri I am going to weave together in the next few

chapters where all that I have exposed and highlighted so

far has been leading and how it is planned to conclude. This

will involve a vastly different explanation of world events to

that spun daily by Mainstream Everything.

The bottom line is context. You can look at people and

happenings in isolation and they will appear a certain way,

but connect them and wow how different they appear. The

mainstream media reports everything as a series of

unconnected dots happening randomly in and of

themselves. They do this because 90 percent of them are

ignorant of the connections and context while maybe ten

percent have some level of awareness that all is not as it

seems to be. Most of the latter still ignore what they know

to protect their career or because they support those in the

shadows who depend on an ignorant and compliant media

to hide the magnitude of difference between what is really

happening and what the population is told is happening. The

whole foundation of my work for nearly 30 years has been

to put events and people into context and reveal how they

link together to a common end. When strands are

connected you can see the Web and when pixels are

connected you can see the picture. Keep them apart as

politicians and media do and everything appears to be a

bewildering series of random events without coherence or

direction. In fact, they have both and the El-ite are terrified

of you seeing that. Once people, organisations and

happenings are put into their true connected context the

world looks very different. These connections operate on

multiple levels within the realm of the ‘seen’ and between

the ‘seen’ and ‘unseen’. What appears to be the reason for

something in the seen can have a far deeper meaning in the

unseen. Take war as an example. The mainstream

explanation for a war will be whatever the dominant force

behind the media (mostly Western politicians and

corporations) say it is. ‘We must invade to stop this dictator

killing his own people!’ Connect the dots within the seen

and you see that in fact this is just a made-up excuse to

remove a target regime as part of a much bigger strategy in

pursuit of global acquisition and control. Go into the unseen

and the Archontic Reptilian force which feeds off human fear

and other low-vibrational emotion and the act of war itself

becomes the most important thing. There will be an ideal

Archontic sequence of war in the seen to divide and rule the

population and absorb land, resources and freedom, but the

prime focus is that war and conflict of any kind keep

happening to energetically feed the beast through the

human emotional response. Continual war and conflict are

themselves the main priority to the Archontic distortion.

What are they fighting about? We don’t really care so long

as they are fighting. What are they in fear about? We don’t

really care so long as they are in fear. World events can only

be understood in their true light when people know that

what is happening in the seen is being orchestrated from

the unseen.



Hunger

Games

Society

F igure 4 4 3 : The structure of what I call the Hunger Games Society.

The world of the seen becomes an open book once we

answer two questions: Where are we being taken and what

are the psychological techniques that take us there? I have

already answered question number two with Problem-

Reaction-Solution and the Totalitarian Tiptoe. There are

other mind games to confuse and manipulate the collective

perception of events, but these are the twin pillars of what

is a global psychiatric program targeting the human psyche.

A few people can’t control the many ‘physically’ and this

has to be done by controlling minds and perceptions of

reality. So now to question one: Where are we being taken? I

refer to this long-planned Brave New World as the Hunger

Games Society after the movie series that portrayed a

dystopia in which a tiny few mega-rich people employed a

vicious and merciless police/military state to impose their

will upon a poverty-stricken population maintained in

ongoing intergenerational slavery. This describes the

structure of a global society that is clearly being installed by

the day (Fig 443). The plan is for the one percent to control

everything with virtually the entire human race enslaved by

total dependency for the basics of survival and by the

police/military control system which is now being installed

across the world justified to a large part by ‘protecting the

people from terrorism’. This is the same terrorism

orchestrated by the same networks that then say our

freedoms have to be deleted to save us from terrorists they

control, arm and fund – Problem-Reaction-Solution. There

are planned to be only three basic levels of ‘human’ society

– the one percent, those serving them in the police/military

control structure, and everyone else enslaved in poverty

and dependency. Official contempt for the poor and

destitute is an example of the assault on the 99 percent by

the one percent and their enforcement arms. People are

made homeless while laws make it illegal to sleep rough;

feeding the homeless is illegal in some cities and caring

people are arrested for doing that; a student was

investigated for giving free haircuts to the homeless

‘without a licence’ (Fig 444). I could fill the book with

examples of such official inhumanities. If you think that

none of this applies to you because you are currently one of

the economic ‘winners’ with a nice house, car and money in

the bank I would advise that you think again. The one

percent and its controlling less-than-one-percent want

everyone’s wealth and assets. If you are not one of them

this includes you no matter what you may think you own

today. There are already many who had nice homes and

well-paid jobs now living in America’s tent cities.



Government after government is taking money directly from

people’s bank accounts using various excuses and Greek

Finance Ministry inspectors are amending the law to allow

for financial assets and contents of safe deposit boxes to be

confiscated. Then there is the bail-in scam when they steal

depositors’ money to ‘save’ the banks they have purposely

crashed. This is a major way they plan to steal wealth in the

wake of a financial collapse that would make the one in

2008 look like a small deal. I am sure the derivatives market

will play a key part in this when it is revealed at the most

effective moment that a market supposedly worth hundreds

of trillions is actually founded on fresh air. The state stealing

of people’s money and assets is becoming quite a theme

given that in 2014 law (lawless) enforcement seized more

property from Americans than burglars did – $5 billion worth

as against $3.5 million. They are doing this through ‘civil

asset forfeiture’ laws that allow property to be taken and

kept by police without any charges or proof that any crime

whatsoever has taken place. The onus is then on the target

to prove they are not criminals or planning to be to get their

property returned. This robbery by the state is rising rapidly

with Trump Attorney General Jeff Sessions pledging to make

it easier for police to seize property without evidence of a

crime.

F igure 4 4 4 : Archontic Reptilian calling card – no empathy.

The frenzy of credit card debt (all callously-manipulated)

is leading multitudes of people to the financial abyss. A

survey by Northwestern Mutual in 2017 indicated that 45

percent of Americans use half their monthly pay to service

debt and this is excluding mortgage debt. We already have

a mega-rich one percent owning 50 percent of the wealth

and the world’s wealthiest 62 people worth the same as the

poorest half of the human population combined by early

2016. This 62 figure has since plummeted as wealth and

control of resources are further concentrated year by year

even within the one percent and 2017 studies put the

number as low as five or six – Bill Gates (Microsoft), Mark

Zuckerberg (Facebook), Jeff Bezos (Amazon), Warren Buffet

(Berkshire Hathaway investments), Amancio Ortega (fashion

and real estate) and Carlos Slim Helu (Latin America

telecom). The top five each has the wealth equivalent to

750 million people. Corporations owned by the less-than-

one percent are seizing control of the global economy with,

for example, nearly one dollar in every two that Americans

spend online going to Amazon and four pounds in every ten

in the UK. Amazon continues to increase its domination and

range of products to force out of business ever-more

competitors across the entire spectrum of human economic

activity. Fairness, sharing and leaving something for others

is not in the Amazon vocabulary because Bezos wants it all –

a full-blown global monopoly on almost everything you buy

and straight from the script being followed by Google and

Facebook in their areas of operation. Amazon has even

patented a system that would stop customers in its stores

checking out prices at other outlets on their phones. These

people are utterly ruthless. Bezos is reportedly known for his

rages and frequent tantrums and was named the World’s

Worst Boss by the International Trade Union Confederation

in 2014. Fifty-one of the 100 biggest economies are now

corporations and not countries. The largest 200 corporations

are worth more than 182 countries combined and 147

corporations account for 40 percent of global trade. Once

again this concentration of power is increasing by the day

helped by international ‘trade agreements’ that are nothing

more than the legally-binding transfer of power from



governments to corporations which allow governments (the

people) to be subject to massive fines if they pass laws that

corporations say are harmful to their profits. Whether such

laws are beneficial to the population or the environment is

irrelevant to this fascism. Profits (control) is all that matters.

They are, after all, Archontic Reptilian satanic psychopaths

who are so empathy-deleted that they can sacrifice children,

destroy lives at will and pepper-bomb civilians without even

a smear of emotional consequence.

F igure 4 4 5 : The world government hierarchy of the Hunger Games

Society.

The Hunger Games Society structure is founded on a

world government that would dictate globally to every

community (Fig 445). By ‘government’ I don’t even mean

elected government. This would be run by unelected

appointees and those appointed by appointees in the

manner of the European Union where major decisions

affecting the lives of hundreds of millions are made by dark

suit bureaucrats who run the EU as their own personal

fiefdom while answering to their hidden masters. The joke of

a ‘European Parliament’ (appropriately in another country to

the EU bureaucratic Commission) is only there to exercise

illusory power and allow the EU to be called ‘democratic’

while operating as a bureaucratic, financial and legal

dictatorship. The ‘world government’ would operate in the

same way as a bureaucratic global tyranny. We already have

de facto world government being introduced via the

Totalitarian Tiptoe in the form of the United Nations Security

Council and the ‘G’ numbers – G7, G8, G20 and whatever

they come up with next. World government-in-waiting is also

referred to as ‘the international community’, and there is an

annual World Government Summit exploring and promoting

global governance. I have been highlighting the world

government agenda since Robots’ Rebellion in 1993 and

here they are now openly advocating just that. Society-

transforming events are random? Not a chance. Britain and

France are among five permanent members of the UN

Security Council along with the United States, Russia and

China deciding among many other things who shall and

shall not be bombed by usually the United States, Britain

and NATO although the US often ignores the UN and does it

anyway. How can Britain and France with the 21st and 22nd

biggest populations have a permanent place on such a

body? This is because of their position in the hierarchy of

the global Web and nothing to do with the size of the

countries. World government would control all finance

through a world central bank imposing its will through

subordinate levels already being moved into place like the

European Central Bank (ECB). There would be only one

global electronic currency and cash would be eliminated. I

have been warning about the cashless society since the

early 1990s and now cash is being deleted at an ever-

quickening speed. Some countries are already virtually

cashless and credit card giant Visa has begun paying

businesses to stop taking coins and notes (so hitting those

without cards or smartphones, usually the elderly, but what

does Visa care?). The International Monetary Fund (IMF)

published advice to governments on how to delete cash and

what they suggest is happening: Although some countries

most likely will de-cash in a few years, going completely

cashless should be phased in steps. The de-cashing process

could build on the initial and largely uncontested steps, such

as the phasing out of large denomination bills, the

placement of ceilings on cash transactions, and the

reporting of cash moves across the borders.

Further steps could include creating economic incentives

to reduce the use of cash in transactions, simplifying the

opening and use of transferrable deposits, and further

computerizing the financial system.

It’s vintage Totalitarian Tiptoe. A cashless world is all

about control and surveillance, but ignorance of the real

agenda behind the deletion of cash is the reason why

surveys suggest that a third of Europeans would be happy

to go cashless. Not if they knew the consequences they

wouldn’t. A cashless world means that you would not be

able to purchase anything that The System didn’t know

about immediately. Barter would be banned on the grounds

that it can’t be taxed and anyone who resisted, challenged

and exposed the authorities would have their access to

money deleted by a simple click, click, enter. Cash you can

hold in your hand is a bulwark against total financial control

and that is why it is disappearing. ‘Oh, but it’s so convenient

just to swish my smartphone.’ What do people think they

are going to do – make it inconvenient to be enslaved??

The next level of control under the world government

would be a series of superstates – mirrors of the EU – with

once-sovereign countries dismantled and replaced by

smaller regions to dilute any unity of response to this edifice

of oppression and imposition. The System and its agents

and sycophants were so shocked by a majority in the UK

voting to withdraw from the EU in the 2016 Brexit

Referendum because it goes against the plan. Brussels

bureaucrats and their agents, system-servers and clueless

progressives in Britain are doing everything they can to

thwart Brexit and make it as difficult as possible to leave as

a warning to anyone else that wants to follow as great

numbers of Europeans would like to do. EU controllers want

to absorb more and more countries not have anyone

leaving. What a sight to see progressives so ignorant of

what is happening and so in the thrall of cognitive

dissonance (believing that two contradictory opposites are

both true) that they can talk about freedom and democracy

while campaigning for 66 million British people to have the

fine detail of their lives decided in another country by

unelected bureaucrats they can’t even name (Fig 446). Jean-

Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission

(unelected bureaucrats), has many times been accused of

being drunk on duty and videos can be seen on the Internet

of him clearly so. He has been referred to as Jean-Claude

Drunker and Jean-Claude Junket. A diplomat quoted in the

media accused him of being ‘very visibly pissed’ during EU

talks over Cyprus and being ‘very familiar’ with young aides



to the point of embarrassment for onlookers. His behaviour

was described as ‘strange’, but not so strange if you are

pissed. I just put ‘Jean-Claude Juncker’ into a search engine

and the second phrase offered after his name was ‘Jean-

Claude Juncker drunk’. I know what – let’s give him power

over the lives of more than 500 million people, shall we?

F igure 4 4 6 : How dare you useless old people get us out of jail?

There was an obvious sleight-of-hand in the 2017 British

General Election to dilute Brexit and maintain EU

bureaucratic control of the UK. Prime Minister Theresa May

of the Conservative Party had said again and again that she

would not be calling an election until she had to by law and

by then negotiations to leave the EU would have been

completed. She had a big enough majority in Parliament to

have the triggering of Article 50 agreed that began the

negotiations and they were weeks away from starting. Then,

out of nowhere, May announced a General Election on the

grounds that she needed a bigger majority to give her more

power in the negotiations. Opinion polls suggested that she

would achieve this, but what followed can only be described

as one of the worst election campaigns by any major party

in British political history and included a suicide-note

manifesto financially targeting the very core Conservative

Party vote that May needed to win her majority. If she had

set out to lose she would have run the same campaign. She

clung on as the biggest party, but lost her majority which

gave a ‘progressive alliance’, most of which doesn’t want

Brexit at all, the chance to stop the full withdrawal from EU

control that the public voted for in the 2016 referendum.

Staying in the single European trading market or what is

called a ‘soft Brexit’ would still involve EU bureaucratic

control even if the UK officially ceased to be an EU member.

This is the most that the progressive alliance would agree to

and if so this would reduce Brexit to little more than window

dressing. Some members of the main opposition Labour

Party have indicated that they would support May in a full

withdrawal (‘hard Brexit’) and we’ll see what happens but

the Theresa May election debacle when Brexit was on

course stinks to high heaven. Decisions were taken by a tiny

group around May without consulting the wider party and it

was reported that she had been urged several times by

Eurocrat Jean-Claude Juncker to call a snap election to

secure a bigger majority and more power in the EU exit

negotiations – the last thing he wanted her to have. If what

he said played any part in May’s decision the scale of

naivety alone should bar her from running a country. Like I

say, the whole thing stinks. At the same time most of the

EU-worshipping progressives go on protests against

globalisation and trade agreements giving power to

corporations when that agenda is being driven by the same

global cabal driving the constant centralisation of

bureaucratic power in the EU. There are 30,000 lobbyists in

Brussels (roughly equal to the EU bureaucracy) representing

some of the world’s biggest corporate names and they are

estimated to influence some 75 percent of EU legislation on

the road to global corporate domination through

globalisation. Shakes head again, breathes deeply, and

continues on. Arrogance of ignorance does not begin to

describe the scale of ignorance, stupidity, hypocrisy and

self-delusion. Such is the childlike bewilderment of the

‘progressive’, black-and-white PC mind which has convinced

itself that anyone who doesn’t want to be centrally-

controlled by bureaucrats or have their country unable to

decide the scale of immigration must by definition be racist

and thus unworthy of further debate or consideration; and,

in the eyes of some PC progressive extremists, they should

not even have a right to vote. It is a form of mental illness in

which you are so psychologically imbalanced that you act

like a fascist but self-identify as a freedom-loving liberal.

World Army NATO

The will of the world government dictatorship is planned to

be imposed by a world army with all national militaries

disbanded and their personnel and resources handed over

to control by the global network in which ultimately there

would be one combined and centrally-controlled military and

police organisation responsible for all law enforcement

whether foreign or domestic. Indeed, this is meant to be

eventually a technological world military/police force

controlled by artificial intelligence, but I will come to that

later. The United States and NATO (the United States) are

the stalking horses for the world army to be introduced

through the Totalitarian Tiptoe and the United Nations

peacekeeping operation and any EU army are also destined

for absorption into the world army structure. The US spends

more on the military than the next ten countries combined

(Fig 447). Russia is way behind and yet they are supposed to

be a threat to the world while the most trigger-happy

country on earth spends at least a trillion dollars-plus a year

on the military (hidden costs included) while constantly

claiming to be under threat from someone or other. Terrify

the population with lots of make-believe ‘enemies’ and

they’ll accept that their government spends trillions on the

military while people are hungry and live on the street. The

US military now operates in 147 countries out of 196 and

has divided the world into different ‘Coms’ or commands

(Fig 448). There is NORTHCOM, SOUTHCOM, EUCOM,

CENTCOM, AFRICOM AND PACOM. The arrogance of this is

beyond belief, but the point is that this structure is not

ultimately for the US military. These are structural divisions

preparing for the world army to take over. Alongside this we

have US-controlled NATO which is the major grouping in the

world-army-in-waiting. I said in ... And The Truth Shall Set

You Free, written in 1994, that we should watch for NATO

expanding its operations outside the North Atlantic region

for which its creation had been justified to stop the ‘Soviet

threat’ to the West during the manufactured Cold War. The

NATO killing machine (the North Atlantic Terrorist

Organisation) has since bombed the innocent in Libya and

operates around the world including Afghanistan, Africa, the

Mediterranean and Kosovo over which it bombed the

innocent in Serbia at the end of the 1990s at a time when

Kosovo was part of Serbia in what remained of the former

Yugoslavia (Fig 449). I spoke in Serbia in 2017 and I met a man struggling along on crutches who had his legs blown off

by a NATO attack on Belgrade in the conflict promoted by

war criminals Bill Clinton and Tony Blair. A Serbian legal

team is suing NATO for the illegal use of between 10 and 15

tons of depleted uranium during the bombing campaign

which created a human and environmental disaster. Serbian

lawyer Srdjan Aleksic, who leads the legal team, said the

use of banned weapons was a violation of all international

conventions and rules that protect people. ‘We expect the

members of NATO to provide treatment to our citizens who

are suffering from cancer,’ Aleksic said, and NATO must

‘provide the necessary technology and equipment to

remove all traces of the depleted uranium from Serbia’. It’s

just another day in NATO’s sick history (Fig 450). What has

happened in Kosovo, Serbia and the rest of the Balkans is a

great example of how the Hidden Hand works and secures

recruits for its NATO world army and European Union. The

US-UK-NATO alliance of pure evil funded and armed the

‘Kosovo Liberation Army’ (KLA), a bunch of terrorists

supported by Albania which is 100 percent owned by the

United States. When Serbia and Montenegro responded to

KLA attacks Clinton, Blair and NATO justified the bombing of

Belgrade and elsewhere to ‘protect the people’ (see Libya,

Syria, and so on). European officers who served with the

international peacekeeping force in Kosovo later confirmed

to the media that the CIA was behind the Kosovo ‘Liberation’

Army and encouraged the ‘rebellion’ in southern Serbia to

target then Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. The

breakup of the former Yugoslavia and Soviet Union was

connected to the world army agenda and that of the

European Union. The plan was to divide those groupings into

constituent countries and then absorb them into NATO and

the EU. This is what has happened and continues to happen.

The speed with which those countries left Eastern

communism to be absorbed by Western communism and

fascism says it all. There were mass protests, while I was in

Belgrade, in neighbouring Montenegro after the parliament

without consulting the people voted to join NATO – the

organisation that bombed the country less than 20 years

before. Talk about insensitive, but the Archontic political

class answers to other masters and not the public. US-

worshipping Prime Minister Dusko Markovic officially led

Montenegro into NATO in June 2017 in a ceremony in

Washington DC and with that NATO added to its armoury

just 1,950 military personnel, 13 helicopters, two frigates

and three patrol ships. This was about NATO entering

Montenegro and not the other way round and secured

control of virtually the entire coastline both sides of the

Adriatic. Mendacious Markovic said: ‘It is a historic event for

a country and a nation which endured enormous sacrifices

in the 19th and 20th centuries in order to defend their right

to a free life, the right to decide our own future, recognised

by the world under our own name, and with our own

national symbols.’ Those words were spoken by a man who

had given military control of his country to a power that so

recently bombed his people and while preparing to join the

EU that will strip Montenegro of every right to decide its own

future. Simply incredible, but that’s the scale of progressive

self-delusion.



F igure 4 4 7 : US military spending compared with the rest of the

world. Russia is

a very distant third close to that of Saudi Arabia.





F igure 4 4 8 : The global command structure of the United States

military

awaiting handover to the world army.





F igure 4 4 9 : NATO – the biggest terrorist organisation on Earth

along with

partners America and Britain.

F igure 4 5 0 : The hypocrisy is breathtaking.

F igure 4 5 1 : The NATO and EU takeover of the Balkans which was

the whole

point of manipulating the breakup of the former Yugoslavia.

The United States is using Albanians and its Albanian

puppet government (a member of NATO) to infiltrate

northwards into the other countries of the Balkans to take

them over politically (Fig 451). Once this influence is strong

enough they will press for the country to join NATO and the

EU. German lawmakers have warned about the spread of

Saudi Arabian Wahhabism (Sabbatean Frankism) in Kosovo

under the eyes of UN ‘peacekeepers’ and this all makes

sense. The manipulation networks of Web bagman George

Soros are heavily involved throughout the Balkans, as they

were in the overthrow of Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia and

are currently in the political turmoil involving ethnic

Albanians and Soros-funded progressives in Macedonia.

Soros-funded activists are known as ‘Sorosoids’ in

Macedonia and one commentator said that, ‘Soros came

into Macedonia like a Trojan horse, and now he is an

octopus’. The same story can be told wherever he operates

– which seems to be everywhere – as he uses money to

influence and control progressives, the wider Left and the

media. Leaked documents from his Open Society

Foundations reveal how Zionist Soros, an American citizen,

has spent big money to stop populist candidates and anti-

EU movements in Europe by funding some 100

organisations across 28 countries with sums of between

$10,000 and $350,000. Populism is being demonised to

protect the progressive agenda because this is the

dictionary definition: ‘Any of various, often anti-

establishment or anti-intellectual political movements or

philosophies that offer unorthodox solutions or policies and

appeal to the common person rather than according with

traditional party or partisan ideologies.’ This is why people

like Soros and everything he represents want to destroy

populist movements whether of the Left or Right, and why

the Pope has come out in condemnation of populism (Fig

452). ‘Jesus’ may have been a mythical figure, but if you

take the story literally as the Pope is supposed to do then he

was heading a populist movement. Soros was exposed for

secretly paying the salaries of three key aides to then-

Moldovan Prime Minister Lurie Leancă, starting in 2013, and

overcame Moldovan laws by directing the money through a

non-profit organisation in Germany. Albanian Prime Minister

Edi Rama hired Tony Blair as an advisor to try to get them

into the EU. The disgusting Alastair Campbell, Blair’s spin

doctor who co-produced the ‘dodgy dossier’ that lied about

weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, also advised Rama’s

socialist party on its way to power. Apparently Albania loves

Blair for supporting the Kosovo Liberation Army by bombing

Belgrade and other targets. Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia,

Romania and Bulgaria have already joined both NATO and

the EU. This has happened in the states of the former Soviet

Union with countries like Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia,

Czech Republic and Hungary. Others are in the process of

doing so, in both the Balkans and former Soviet Union.

Serbian people are holding out against NATO and EU

membership so far but current president Aleksandra Vučić

wants to join both if the truth be told, and the prime

minister he appointed, Ana Brnabić, Serbia’s first woman

and openly gay prime minister, said her priorities were

membership of the European Union and ‘modernisation’,

which means the classic progressive ‘centrist’ extremism

that is taking over the world. They want you to focus on

Trump, the hate-figure of progressives, so we won’t notice

that it is progressives (not liberals) who are holding power in

country after country. The UK and US-educated Brnabić said

the EU represented the ‘values we stand for’. Wow, now the

EU and ‘values’ in the same sentence – collector’s item.

Aleksandra Vučić has such contempt for Serbians that he,

too, hired Blair as an ‘advisor’, with Campbell thrown in, to

help him secure Serbia’s place in the EU. The deal was paid

for, apparently bizarrely, by the fake royals of the United

Arab Emirates (the Web) with the fortune they make from

stealing the country’s oil resources from the people. Vučić

once again hired Blair less than two decades after he was a

leading proponent of bombing Belgrade and a Serbian

government in which Vučić was a minister. The lack of

principle by Vučić or respect for Serbians who took the

consequences is astounding. He claims to have won 58





percent of the vote to become president but during a week

in Belgrade I met nobody who voted for him and only one

person who knew anyone who had.

F igure 4 5 2 : Pope’s don’t just support the global Establishment –

they are a

major pillar of it.

Military

police

(literally)

F igure 4 5 3 : Traffic patrol in the Brave New World.

The plan is for the world army to absorb all domestic

police into one military/police structure and the emergence

of this is clear in the United States where the Pentagon has

been transferring military vehicles and technology to even

county police forces for either nothing or next to nothing

through its 1033 program. We now have police driving

through the community in tanks and the difference in

clothing and weaponry between police and military is fast

disappearing (Figs 453 and 454). Potentially lethal Tasers and very lethal hand and machine guns are becoming

standard issue and commonplace, as manufactured

terrorism and the fear of terrorism is exploited to

manipulate the population to accept lethally-armed police

officers and a surveillance state. Public events in the UK are

teeming with armed police in military-type uniforms since

the terror attack at the Manchester concert venue in 2017

and others. Police increasingly look and act like the military

because the plan is to eventually fuse them into one.

Militarised police worldwide are overseeing an emerging

police state underpinned by now extreme levels of

surveillance and control with far more to come, and by the

systematic recruitment of psychopathic people of strictly

limited intelligence. What a nightmare police work must be

today for those remaining genuine officers who still want to

do the job with integrity and balance. Surveillance

technology allows the authorities to track almost everything

we do and pretty soon you can forget the ‘almost’. As I

write, the British government is preparing new laws in

conjunction with O2, BT, BSkyB, Cable and Wireless,

Vodafone, Virgin Media and interception agencies to impose

a massive increase in surveillance even beyond the

enormity of state tracking already in place. Communication

companies would be legally responsible for giving the

government and its agencies real-time access to content

from a named person within a single working day and other

‘secondary information’. They would also have to remove

any encryption. Electronic communication means that

nothing you do is private any longer as revelations by

WikiLeaks and former insiders like Edward Snowden have

shown, and even then this is only part of the picture.

Compartmentalisation of knowledge means that insiders

only see some levels of the Big Brother apparatus and

nothing like all. It is good that whistleblowers do what they

do because we need to know, but people shouldn’t kid

themselves that what is called the Deep State isn’t quite

happy for the scale of its surveillance reach to be made

public. Many studies confirm that when people know they

can be watched and whatever they do electronically is

retrievable they begin to censor themselves. This is the holy

grail of state control when people stop doing things out of

fear of being caught doing things. The more the state

reveals the scale of surveillance the more self-censorship

will follow if people don’t have the backbone to challenge

The System and not let fear freeze them into acquiescence.

Drones, including armed drones, are the next level of

control, and surveillance along with highly-sophisticated



tracking techniques that involve phone apps that pick up

high-frequency tones undetectable by the human ear

broadcast by websites, radio and television broadcasts,

advertisements, even shops and sports stadiums. This

information can build up a profile of your life.

F igure 4 5 4 : The plan is to fuse the police and military into one

global control

system and this is why police officers are increasingly looking like

troops.

Satellites are counting albatrosses from space so you can

appreciate the scale and detail they can track and record

about human activity. Holographic versions of homes and

wider areas are being created using Wi-Fi transmissions.

Friedemann Reinhard, director of the Emmy Noether

Research Group for Quantum Sensors at the Technical

University of Munich, said: ‘Using this technology, we can

generate a three-dimensional image of the space around

the Wi-Fi transmitter, as if our eyes could see microwave

radiation.’ This is one reason why they want Wi-Fi and smart

meters in every home and everywhere else, although there

are many others. The holographic technology would

potentially allow real-time surveillance of private space.

Documents made public through WikiLeaks reveal how the

CIA uses a system it calls ‘Archimedes’ to redirect traffic

from computers to an ‘exploitation server’ controlled by the

CIA. Deeply untrustworthy former FBI Chief James Comey

told a cybersecurity conference there is no such thing as

privacy in America and people should accept that their

conversations and communications may not remain private.

‘There is no place outside of judicial reach’, he said. The

term ‘judicial’ is thoroughly disingenuous in an attempt to

indicate some judicial oversight when in fact these agencies

do what they like. The Director of US National Intelligence

reported that in 2016 alone 151 million phone records were

traced and that is only what they are admitting to. Comey’s

speech was an example of an ongoing campaign to

normalise Big Brother as just part of life and the way things

are and have to be. Children are being conditioned to accept

all this as normal by the cameras, fingerprint and iris

scanning technology used in schools which increasingly

resemble the prisons that they are (Fig 455). I was born in

1952 and I have the filter of knowing how things were

before the surveillance society began in earnest. Young

people today have only known surveillance schools, cities

and communities and familiarity can induce a sense of

‘normality’ for impositions that are anything but normal. We

need to keep emphasising this at every opportunity.

Tracking where people go on the Internet, what they do in

their own homes through Smart TVs, smartphones, smart

meters, technological ‘office assistants’ and anything

connected to the Internet (even toys), and knowing

wherever you go through surveillance cameras, drones,

phones, tablets, watches and microchips is not normal. It is



outrageous, unnecessary and insane. We are told this is to

protect us from terrorism but this is an obvious lie. We are

seeing every day the installation of the police/military

apparatus and structure for the Hunger Games Society

which is designed to impose the will of the one percent on

the rest of humanity. Well, in part it is. We need to keep in

mind that the one percent and the global Web are only

conduits for who is really orchestrating this monstrous level

of human control – the Archontic Reptilian manipulators

pulling the strings from the hidden realms.

F igure 4 5 5 : Schools are preparing children to accept constant

surveillance and

authoritarian control as ‘normal’.

Owning the world The El-ite in the Hunger Games

movie series lived in isolation from their slave population

protected by the police/military complex. Today there are

enormous cities underground and within mountains where

the El-ite plan to shelter until the people are brought to heel

by their military with much of it controlled from hidden

locations through artificial intelligence. Human slaves in The

Hunger Games were divided into sectors which were unable

to mix and converse and those that have minds to see will

observe how the same pieces are being moved into place.

These sectors specialised in particular areas of production to

serve the El-ite in the ‘Capitol’ and that was the plan from

the start with the European Union as I have explained in

detail in other books. The UK, for example, secretly agreed

to specialise in finance and services and run down fishing,

steel, coal and manufacturing industries when Britain joined

what is now the EU under paedophile, Satanist and serial

child killer, Prime Minister Edward ‘black eyes’ Heath. This is

what has happened in the more than four decades since. I

have featured at length in my last book Phantom Self the

extremely accurate predictions in 1969 of Dr Richard Day, a

Rockefeller family insider and Planned Parenthood

executive. He described how the new global system would

involve countries losing their self-sufficiency to specialise in

only certain areas. Day was speaking at a conference of

paediatricians in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and stunned his

audience by asking them to turn off recording equipment

and not to take notes while he told them how the world was

going to change. No one seems to know why he did this, but

I’m glad he did because it gives us a greater understanding

of how long this transformation of human society has been

in the planning along with other ‘prophetic’ (knowing the

plan) examples such as Orwell’s Nineteen-Eighty-Four and

Huxley’s Brave New World. One doctor that night, Lawrence

Dunegan, did keep notes and gave a series of interviews

before he died in 2004 detailing what Day had said. Among

his predictions was a description of the World Wide Web 20

years before it was officially invented and Smart TVs some

40 years before they were introduced. George Orwell

described them in 1948 and called them Telescreens that

could film and monitor people in their own homes. Current

Smart TVs are only the first versions and Web giant

Samsung has already announced a new ultrathin Smart TV

called ‘The Frame’ which never turns off and has an ‘art

mode’ which makes it appear as a painting on the wall – one

that is watching you. Richard Day said this of the new world

economic and commercial system as reported by Dr

Lawrence Dunegan: The stated plan was that different parts

of the world would be assigned different roles of industry

and commerce in a unified global system. The continued

preeminence of the United States and the relative

independence and self-sufficiency of the United States

would have to be changed.

This has been done through massive outsourcing of

manufacturing and so much else from the United States and

Europe to other countries where sweatshop labour can be

exploited. This has so suppressed the jobs market and

incomes in the West – as with mass immigration – that

sweatshop labour has been imported to the West as the

human race in general enters a downward spiral to the

Hunger

Games

Society.

Increasing

unemployment,

homelessness, lower wages and zero hours contracts, where

employers do not have to provide minimum working hours

and only call on staff (and so pay them) when they choose,

are all connected with this. The number of food banks in

Britain for those who can’t afford to feed themselves and

their families has risen to more than 2,000 with demand for

emergency food parcels growing for the ninth successive

year. This process is now being accelerated by the mass

replacement of work opportunities worldwide by robots and

artificial intelligence which has only just begun but will

increase dramatically from here. Donald Trump sold himself

to the electorate as the man to reverse outsourcing when

that was never going to be allowed to happen except

cosmetically here and there to hide the truth that no such

major reversal is taking place. Centralisation of global power

with supranational groupings and gigantic corporations

means that while countries lose self-sufficiency through

specialisation and become dependent on forces over which

they have no control, those at the global centre can direct

and dictate the entire system. This is the role of the world

government and its world central bank with their decisions

imposed by the world army. Rothschild-Rockefeller El-ite

creations such as the World Trade Organization, World

Health Organization and others are part of the preparation

for every subject area to be globally controlled under one

roof and their will enforced on every man, woman and child.

This is not some out-of-the-ether prediction. It is happening.

The deluge of regulation and law that is forcing so many

small and medium-sized companies out of business – not

least in the EU – is being imposed to that very end. There

would only be giant corporations in the Hunger Games

Society and everything else would be deleted by then.

Globalisation is not an accident; it is essential to the tiny

few controlling the very many. Humans once lived in tribes

which decided their own direction and methods of

operation. Then the tribes were brought together into

nations and many tribes were centrally controlled. Now we

have moved on to superstates like the EU and global bodies

centrally-controlling nations, and it’s all been Archontically-

orchestrated from the unseen. Each new centralisation gives

the few more control over the many and they then use that

power to centralise even quicker. Hence the pace of

globalisation has got faster and faster. Another aspect of

increasing corporate control is for governments owned by

corporations to sell them public assets for well below the

market price as we have seen again and again in the United

Kingdom and across the world. This is explained away as

incompetence, but it’s not. Greece alone has been asset-

stripped by corporations in the wake of an economic

collapse caused by merciless corporate banks (see Goldman

Sachs), the IMF and the EU with its 30,000 corporate

lobbyists surrounding the EU Commission in Brussels.

Austerity package follows austerity package to qualify for

new ‘bailouts’ that Greece can never pay back and, while

the pathetic government of Alexis Tsipras capitulates

without a murmur, people go hungry and die. All this is

empathy-deleted Sabbatean Frankism and Satanism

encapsulated.

Political ‘choice’ – the sick joke To bring about

this step-by-step transformation to global tyranny you must

control political decision-making. This would seem to be a

big problem given the different political parties that people

could potentially vote into power, but it’s not really a

problem once you have political and financial structures in

place which are almost certain to deliver who you want or

restrict the possibilities for real change of those rare few

elected to high office that you don’t want. We return to the

theme of pseudo-randomness in which ‘different’ is just

another word for ‘same’. There may be many political

parties, but the crucial point is that in almost every country

only two, maybe three, have any chance of forming a

government and it’s the government that makes the law

and changes society. You vote for party A and they get into

government. You don’t like what they do and so you vote for

party B. You don’t like what they do and the only way you

can get rid of them is to vote again for party A. This is what

is known as political ‘choice’, ‘democracy’ and ‘freedom’.

Add to this the fact that leading parties (and most of the

smaller ones) are manipulated in the background by the

same Archontic force and the myth of political choice

becomes even more laughable. The Left-Right political to

and fro is literally an electromagnetic wave system that

makes both ‘sides’ or polarities dependent on each other

and creates a standing wave that doesn’t change (Figs 456).

I said earlier that standing or stationary waves are produced

whenever two waves of identical frequency interfere with

each other while traveling in opposite directions along the

same medium. They combine to create a wave that vibrates

in the same position, like jogging on the spot, and looks like

the double helix of DNA. What a great description of never-

changing party politics or political DNA and this is a

waveform/holographic version of the standing wave

construct of the simulation itself (as above, so below). Even

most genuine politicians are vibrated into line through daily

experience of the oscillating waves pulsing to the frequency



of the ‘political system’ and turning its parts (politicians)

into expressions of itself – ‘I knew that guy when he went

into politics and he’s now everything he said he opposed.’

F igure 4 5 6 : Politics is literally an electrical and oscillation system

that forms

standing waves between its polarities and so jogs on the spot getting

nowhere.

When I spoke in Ukraine in 2011 the president was Viktor

Yanukovych. He had been thrown out of office for alleged

corruption in the ‘Orange Revolution’ in 2004, but when the

people didn’t like the new chap either they could only

replace him with the other party that could win an election

and this was still led by ... Viktor Yanukovych. They voted

back in the man ejected in a revolution because that was

the only ‘choice’ offered by the rigged system. He was then

thrown out again in the US-led coup, sorry ‘people’s

revolution’, in Ukraine in 2014. There is no need to control

all political parties although they mainly do. What really

matters are the two or three who can potentially form a

government. Nor do you have to control everyone in a

party, only those that decide its stance and direction. They

don’t even necessarily in every case have to be knowingly

doing what you want. They can be persuaded or selected on

the basis that what they want is what you want. British

Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was brought to power

because her economic philosophy called Thatcherism was

what the Hidden Hand wanted during the 1980s to transfer

wealth and assets from public ownership to private El-ite

ownership. Was it really by pure coincidence that in the

same period Ronald Reagan became President of the United

States and introduced a mirror image of Thatcher’s policy

dubbed ‘Reaganomics’? World leaders are just puppets that

can be anything from in-the-know (the few) to those doing

whatever it takes to secure and retain political power for its

own sake (the many) to complete idiots being controlled by

their ‘advisors’ (depressingly many). Real power knowingly

connected to the Archontic Reptilian Spider does not put

itself on public display where it can be identified and

targeted. Politics has its own Postage Stamp Consensus

which means that all but a tiny few see the world pretty

much the same way. Some may want more tax, some less,

some more money for the poor, some less, but the

foundations are the same. For example, banks control

events far more than governments with the global power

that comes from lending people money that doesn’t exist

(credit) and charging interest on it; but where is a political

party with any chance of forming a government calling for

an end of charging interest on fresh-air money and for

government to create the currency interest-free instead of

allowing banks to issue money as a debt from the outset by

making loans of fresh-air credit? Why aren’t even smaller

parties calling for that? The only one I have personally come

across is the Human Shield Party (Živi zid or ‘Living Wall’) in

Croatia which came into being and won seats in parliament

after reading the information in my books. I asked a UK

Green Party candidate about their policy on banks creating

money out of nothing and she had no idea what I was

talking about. Most politicians don’t know how the banking

system works and the few that do know haven’t got the

guts or desire to challenge it. Unless corporate banks are

prevented from creating the currency as an interest-bearing

debt nothing any politician does will ultimately make any

difference because economic control is not with them but

the bankers (the Archontic Web that controls the bankers).

Political ‘royalty’

Political parties were created after people began to reject in-

your-face dictatorship by royal bloodlines. The El-ite then hid

the bloodline behind dark suits and terms like politician,

CEO, bank executive, media owner and so on. This way they

could go on controlling everything while the target

population believed they were now free to decide who ran

their country. The illusion of freedom is a much more

powerful means of ongoing control than knowing you are in

an open dictatorship. People at some point will rebel against

a tyranny they can see, but you don’t rebel against not

being free when you think you are. Political parties are an

El-ite scam. Focus on parties negates the individual whether

they have positive intent or otherwise. Someone of

intelligence and integrity will not get voted into parliament

or Congress unless they are in the right party in the right

constituency or state. Most people don’t vote for the person

but the party. The colour of the rosette is all that matters.

Corrupt and contemptible people are voted into power so

long as they are in the right party in the right constituency

or state. This hands control of political personnel to those

who run the parties and ultimately to that which controls

those who control the parties. To be elected you have to be

chosen to stand by a party that can win. To be selected you

have to tell the party hierarchy what it wants to hear and

‘toe the party line’ as dictated by that hierarchy. Once

elected you have to continue to do what the party hierarchy

demands or you will have no chance of being chosen for

government office. They who control the party therefore

control those within the party. The next level is the one that

hands game, set and match to the El-ite. Every major

political party has an inner circle that picks leaders and

directs policy. The US Republican Party under Boy George

Bush was controlled by a Zionist-created grouping that the

media called Neocons or neoconservatives, which included

behind-the-scenes manipulators like Robert Kagan, William

Kristol and Richard Perle and those in government such as

Vice-President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald

Rumsfeld, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and

Doug Zakheim, who was Comptroller of the Pentagon in

charge of its entire budget. These were the players

controlling Bush and I will come back to them in the next

chapter with regard to 9/11 and the ‘war on [of] terror’. The

Democratic Party has a similar group that I call the

Democons and this has included Rothschild bagman George

Soros, the Clintons and former Jimmy Carter National

Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski who died in May 2017.

Democons controlled Barack Obama in his eight years as

president and the party apparatus ensured – as WikiLeaks

documents show – that Hillary Clinton won the nomination

to run for president in 2016 and not the more popular Bernie

Sanders. Major El-ite assets move between the two parties

as presidential ‘advisors’ as we have seen with ‘Republican’

Secretary of State and ultra-Zionist Henry Kissinger who has

been an advisor to George Bush (Republican), Barack

Obama (Democrat) and Donald Trump (Republican or

whatever he decides to be tomorrow). Now here is what

people crucially need to know: Take one step further back

into the shadows and both Neocons and Democons are

controlled by the same (Archontic) force via Sabbatean

Frankists and other Web assets in both groups (Fig 457). No

matter who is in the White House or what party they claim

to represent that same force is always in power. Mark Twain

said: ‘If voting made any difference they wouldn’t let us do

it.’ Direction never changes with centralisation of power,

war, advancing the Big Brother state and crushing the poor

to serve the rich. This happens whoever is in power because

the hidden force always in control demands it (Fig 458).

They try to hide this with rhetoric and image to give the

impression that potential political leaders are different and

offer a genuine choice and this was never so obvious than

when Obama campaigned to replace Bush and claimed

every 60 seconds that he was about ‘change’. The term is

often used by politicians because most people are sick of

their status quo (brought about by previous politicians

claiming to be about ‘change’) and so they are attracted to

any politician saying they will change the status quo. They

don’t and are never meant to; it’s just a recurring hoax to

get your vote and secure power to do what the El-ite want

to happen. ‘Mr Change’ Obama was only a continuation of

Bush and the ‘man of peace’ became another man of war as

he was always going to be. There was not a single day in

Obama’s eight years in office when America was not at war

and the scandalous Guantanamo Bay concentration and

torture camp that Obama pledged to close ‘within a year’ is

still open (Fig 459). In his last year in office in 2016 his

administration dropped an estimated 26,000 bombs at the

rate of nearly three an hour for 24 hours a day. I called him

out at the time he was elected in an article headed ‘The

Naked Emperor’ because he was such an obvious conman

and fraud. The fact that he attracted record amounts of

campaign money from El-ite banks and institutions made it

obvious that ‘man of the people’ was the last thing he was

going to be. A political system offering an alleged ‘choice’

for a population of 326 million has installed the following

last six presidents: Ronald Reagan, who was suffering from

dementia while still in office, abused mind-controlled women

and whose military actions and covert support for others

make him a war criminal; Father George Bush, the drug-

running, child-abusing serial killer, CIA Deep State operative

and war criminal; Bill Clinton, Bush family friend and drug-

running partner, serial abuser of women and war criminal;

Boy George Bush, a manchild with arrested development

verging on the illiterate, and war criminal; Barack Obama,

front man fraud, Mr Change-Nothing and war criminal;

Donald Trump, insider playing the outsider, reality TV star

and war criminal before he had completed 100 days in

office. You mean we can’t find better than that lot out of

hundreds of millions of Americans spanning nearly 40

years? Of course we can, but we’re not allowed to. We get

what the El-ite choose to give us by selecting the candidate

and controlling both the media and the funding. This is the

only political ‘choice’ that really exists – who the El-ite and

the Web choose to rule on their behalf. See ... And The Truth

Shall Set You Free and The Biggest Secret for the

background to what I said about Reagan, Bush and Clinton.

Genuine people who come to power only here and there are

locked in by the economic control of the banks and their

own Postage Stamp mentality that won’t allow them to see

what is necessary to secure real change for the better.



F igure 4 5 7 : Why nothing changes and the same incessant direction

continues

no matter which ‘party’ is in illusory power. Those in the shadows are

always in

power.

© www.neilhague.com





F igure 4 5 8 : The self-delusion of Left-Right politics.

F igure 4 5 9 : Fraud from first to last.

President Drumpf of Zion Along came the latest

purveyor of snake oil in the form of Donald Trump, real

family name ‘Drumpf’ originating in the German village of

Kallstadt, about an hour and half drive from Frankfurt. The

Heinz ‘food’ family dynasty came from the same village and

is apparently related. Trump told his potential voters

(including some alleged ‘alternative’ media in the United

States) what they wanted to hear about taking on the banks

like Zionist-owned Goldman Sachs, building a wall on the

Mexican border to stop illegal immigration and no longer

using the US military to interfere in the affairs of other

countries. The speed at which he went back on that must

have broken all previous records (Fig 460). He hasn’t

‘drained the swamp’ as he pledged but further expanded it

with more billionaires in his government than any US

administration in history (Fig 461). In next to no time after

winning the presidency he filled his administration with

Sabbatean Frankists and their Zionist perceptual kin. The

American economy was handed to Zionist-owned Goldman

Sachs through Goldman assets Steven Mnuchin (Treasury

Secretary) and Gary Cohn (Director of the National

Economic Council) who was president and CEO of Goldman

Sachs (Fig 462). Bill Clinton (‘Democrat’) and Boy Bush

(‘Republican’) also appointed Treasury Secretaries from

Goldman Sachs. At the same time over the last 30 years the

privately-owned Federal Reserve or ‘the Fed’, the ‘US’

central bank which basically controls the American

economy, have been: Alan Greenspan (Zionist), Ben

Bernanke (Zionist) and Janet Yellen (Zionist). Yellen was vice-

chair to Bernanke and her own vice-chair is Stanley Fischer

(Zionist) who is the former chairman of the central bank of

Israel. The ratio of Zionist population of the United States to

heads and deputy heads of the Federal Reserve is fantastic;

but legitimate questions about why this is so are blocked by

the usual defence response of ‘antiSemitism’. The number

of people in America identifying their religion as Jewish is

only a little more than four million out of 326 million and

that is less than two percent. Zionists and especially secret

society Zionists will be less and far, far less respectively. If

the same population-Fed ratio applied to black people, Irish

people, Hispanics etc., there would be a tidal wave of

questions with Zionists leading the charge. Why are they

untouchable above everyone else when it comes to

legitimate questioning? We are bombarded with propaganda

about how Jewish people are so discriminated against, but

put ‘list of Jewish American business people’ into a search

engine and you’ll see the extent of this ‘discrimination’ in

the business world never mind with government positions.

Zionist Steven Mnuchin donated heavily to the Democratic

Party in the one-party state before joining the ‘Trump’

(Goldman Sachs) government. He worked for Democon

Rothschild/Rockefeller manipulator extraordinaire George

Soros and was CEO of a company called OneWest Bank

Group (formerly IndyMac Bancorp Inc) which he and his

partners sold for a nearly $2 billion profit after foreclosing

on tens of thousands of homes in what has been described

as ‘a foreclosure machine’ after the crash of 2008. Nice

man. Oh yes, and one of the major backers of OneWest?

George Soros. President Trump (how hard that is to write)

named Wilbur Ross as his Commerce Secretary. Ross is an

investor and banker who worked for the Rothschilds for 24

years and claims that ‘the one percent is being picked on for

political reasons’. Ahhh, there, there. He is also a head, or

‘Grand Swipe’, of Kappa Beta Phi ‘Wall Street’s most secret





society’ founded in 1929. Journalist Kevin Roose who gate-

crashed a Kappa Beta Phi ‘induction ceremony’ found

billionaire bankers, cross dressing, mocking of the ’99

percent’ and jokes about the enormous bailouts of the

banking El-ite which were nothing more than a means of

transferring trillions from public to the El-ite in pursuit of the



Hunger Games Society (Fig 463). Kevin Roose wrote in New

York Magazine:

F igure 4 6 0 : America’s latest road sign.

F igure 4 6 1 : As the Bee Gees sang: ‘It’s only words, and words are

all I have to

take your heart away.’

F igure 4 6 2 : Goldman Sachs Zionists Gary Cohn and Steven

Mnuchin.

Here ... was a group that included many of the executives

whose firms had collectively wrecked the global economy

in 2008 and 2009. And they were laughing off the entire

disaster in private, as if it were a long-forgotten lark. (Or

worse, sing about it — one of the last skits of the night

was a self-congratulatory parody of ABBA’s ‘Dancing

Queen’, called ‘Bailout King.’) These were activities that

amounted to a gigantic middle finger to Main Street and

that, if made public, could end careers and damage very

public reputations.

Such is the mentality of Wilbur Ross, appointed by ‘anti-

Establishment’ Donald Trump, but then why would Trump

want to drain the swamp when he has been swimming in it

all his life? He conned the working class and much of the US

‘alternative’ media into supporting him just as Obama

conned so-called progressives. Same masters, same

technique, different huckster. Trump played on the claim to

be an ‘outsider’ and ‘anti-Establishment’ and won because

he tapped into the gathering realisation that the system is

rigged. He told them what they wanted to hear and they

bought it. This ‘outsider’/insider scam was exploited with

the promotion of French President Emmanuel Macron, an

employee of the Rothschilds. He was portrayed as an

‘outsider’ when he wasn’t because they know the public

mood is changing. Both Trump and Macron are the creation

of the Establishment not its challengers. I don’t believe for a

second that Trump bucked the system to win against all the

odds. He was chosen to win and enter the White House – at

least in the short term. With so much to come out about

Trump they could have blocked his election and they have

the power to remove him whenever they like. One of his key

roles was to polarise society in a massive exercise in divide

and rule and set American at war with itself. Chaos is the

currency of the Hidden Hand – a state of flux that is so easy

to manipulate – and in Trump they have Captain Chaos with

the potential of monumental upheaval should he be

removed in office through investigation, assassination or

whatever. He’s just another puppet to be used as necessary.

Should anything happen to cause his demise they have

Neocon-to-his-fingertips Vice-President Mike Pence ready to

take over and he would suit the Neocons perfectly. If not

him there are many more where he came from. The

Democons that control the Democratic Party provably chose

Clinton and made it impossible for Bernie Sanders to beat

her for the nomination. Are we to believe that the Neocons

controlling the Republican Party could not have done the

same to stop Trump if that was their aim? Trump may not



agree with everything the Neocons want, but they have

their ways of overcoming that. Pressure on him over fake

allegations of Russia fixing his election are to ensure that he

does not make any agreements with Vladimir Putin that

would block Neocon ambitions to bring the US into conflict

with Russia. Trump has been bailed out of bankruptcy by

Zionist financiers and he owes them. Payback is to be the

most pro-Israel US President yet. Immediately Trump won

the presidency Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu gave the go

ahead for a rapid expansion of illegal Jewish settlements in

occupied Palestinian land knowing he could now do what he

liked (Fig 464). Trump announced that he would relocate the

US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in a highly symbolic

and provocative move for the Palestinians although he

delayed the switch when he saw the potential opposition

and consequences, but Vice President Pence ‘forcefully

reiterated’ that this will happen. Pence told the Christians

United for Israel summit in Washington, an organisation with

which he has close ties: ‘It is not a question of if; it is only

when.’ He also stated the obvious: ‘Under President Donald

Trump, if the world knows nothing else, then the world will

know this: America stands with Israel, now and always.’ The

first overseas tour by Trump as President of the United

States (controlled by Sabbatean Frankism) was to Israel

(controlled by Sabbatean Frankism), Saudi Arabia (controlled

by Sabbatean Frankism) and the Vatican (controlled by

Sabbatean Frankism). Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said

the visit was to gather support to stand in ‘unity’ with Israel

against Iran. Yawn. Trump proceeded to sign deals with the

Saudi Sabbatean Frankist Dönmeh fake royals to supply

them with still more arms worth $350 billion. This is a

country that violently oppresses its people, funds terrorism,

bombs the innocent and oppresses women to extremes that



beggar belief – a country that Trump once said

masterminded 9/11. They didn’t, but they did play their

part.

F igure 4 6 3 : Wilbur Ross perfect for government.

F igure 4 6 4 : The President of the United States alongside Donald

Trump.

Zionism has taken over US financial policy (or continued

its control) thanks to Trump’s Goldman Sachs appointments,

and Zionist Carl Icahn is Special Advisor to the President on

Regulatory Reform working with the absolutely Zionist-

dominated Trump financial team. Then we have Trump’s

ubiquitous hardline Zionist son-in-law and ‘senior advisor’,

Jared Kushner, who has known Israel crazy Netanyahu since

he was a child. Netanyahu once slept in Kushner’s childhood

bedroom due to his close relationship with Kushner’s father,

Charles Kushner, a real estate mogul who was jailed for

illegal campaign contributions, tax evasion and witness

tampering. Jared Kushner is Israel’s (therefore the

Rothschilds’) man in the White House and married to

Trump’s daughter Ivanka who converted to the Jewish faith

before the wedding on his insistence. Are we also to believe

it is all a coincidence that a life-long friend of Benjamin

Netanyahu and vehement Zionist married into the Trump

family and then Trump became US President and made him

his senior advisor at 36? Ivanka, another presidential

advisor, has a fundamental influence on her childlike father

whose narcissism makes him such a synch for sycophancy

to manipulate as does his capacity for creating upheaval

and chaos. Trump has a legendary ego but that is cover for

his deep insecurity which requires him to respond to

criticism that secure people would simply ignore. How

typical that the media has focused on Kushner’s meetings

with Russian people, but looks the other way with his full-on

connections and associations with Israel and Zionism. Jared

Kushner is Israel-to-his-DNA and has given money to the

American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), the

notorious Israel-front and one of the best-funded lobby

groups in the United States. They also have front men on

Capitol Hill like Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham

who, appropriately, are also apologists and lobbyists for

US/Israel fiefdom Saudi Arabia. McCain’s ‘foundation’

receives funds from the Rothschild family and Zionist

billionaire George Soros. Former Congresswoman Cynthia

McKinney has revealed how she was approached

immediately she ran for office to ‘sign the pledge’ to Israel

and confirm she would always vote in Israel’s best interests.

Failure to do so meant no support or funding from the all-

powerful Zionist lobby that includes AIPAC. McKinney said

this happened to everyone running for Congress or the

Senate and she described her own experience: Every

candidate for Congress at that time had a pledge, they were

given a pledge to sign ... If you don’t sign the pledge, you

don’t get money. For example, it was almost like water

torture for me. My parents observed this. I would get a call

and the person on the other end of the phone would say ‘I

want to do a fundraiser for you.’ And then we would get into

the planning. I would get really excited, because of course

you have to have money in order to run a campaign. And

then two weeks, three weeks into the planning, they would

say, ‘Did you sign the pledge?’ And then I would say, ‘No, I

didn’t sign the pledge.’ And then my fundraiser would go

kaput.

McKinney eventually lost her seat when AIPAC funded her

opponent who signed the pledge. If you want to be in

Congress or the Senate don’t upset AIPAC and this is the

swamp that Kushner swims in. He has major financial ties to

Soros, an almost life-long agent of the Web, which includes

a $250 million ‘investment’ in a Kushner company, and to

the Steinmetz family, one of the richest in Israel. Kushner

owned the New York Observer newspaper which promoted

the Zionist agenda and trashed those who question the

official fairy story about 9/11. His own special assistant is

Zionist Avrahm Berkowitz and another Trump senior advisor

alongside Kushner is Zionist Stephen Miller. The president

also has a list of Zionist ‘special assistants’. Trump named

his lawyer, the Zionist extremist David M. Friedman, as

Ambassador to Israel. Jason Greenblatt, executive vice

president and chief legal officer to Trump and the Trump

Organization, and his ‘advisor on Israel’, became US Special

Representative for International Negotiations including

those between Israel and the Palestinians. Another Zionist,

Yael Lempert, is Special Assistant to the President and

Senior Director for Israel, Egypt and the Levant. Palestinians

have been royally stitched up and on Netanyahu’s first visit

to the Trump White House the two-state solution to the

Israel-Palestine conflict was questioned by a president for

the first time in favour of a one state – Israel – ‘solution’.

Zionists can be found throughout the Trump administration

in far greater numbers than you would statistically expect

given the Jewish population of America and so it was with

Obama’s financial team and key players across 9/11 at the

time of Boy Bush. Are these people there to represent the

interests of the United States or Israel and the Rothschilds?

They play the ‘antiSemitism’ card so vehemently and

vociferously to stop such legitimate questions being asked.

Well they can say what they like about me – I couldn’t give a

shit. The truth is the truth and it’s about time it was spoken.

The Zionist network is really the Rothschild network and

inner circle secret society Zionism is a front for Sabbatean

Frankism. Jewish people as a whole are as irrelevant to

these Zionist insiders as the rest of the global population.

Follow the money ...

Zionist billionaires are major funders of American politics,

Democrat and Republican, to control both sides. In return

they want lots of bang for their buck. Zionist George Soros

gives money to ‘progressive’ and Democrat causes while

the biggest financial supporter of the Trump presidential bid

was Sheldon Adelson, the American-Israeli casino billionaire

and Israel media owner. Own both sides and you can’t lose

and the same principle (or lack of it) is true of all the major

corporations and banks that now have free reign to spend

as much as they like in the US persuading the public to vote

for their candidates or against the ones they don’t want.

Wall Street spent a record $2 billion on political

contributions in the 2016 US election cycle and that’s only

the headline figure. The ‘bang for their buck’ means they

choose who gets what job – see Trump and Goldman Sachs

who he heavily criticised in his election campaign to pander

to his anti-Establishment support. WikiLeaks released an

email sent in 2008 by Zionist banker Michael Froman, an

executive at Citigroup, to John Podesta, co-chair of the

transition team for President-elect Barack Obama. Froman

suggested names to be appointed to Obama’s government

and almost all of them duly were. The three names he listed

for Treasury Secretary were Robert Rubin (Zionist), Larry

Summers (Zionist), and Timothy Geithner (Zionist-owned).

All three had served in the Bill Clinton administration.

Obama appointed Geithner as Treasury Secretary and made

Summers Director of the National Economic Council, a job

now held by Zionist Gary Cohn. Read the economics chapter

in The Perception Deception and you’ll see that Zionist

control of the American economy under successive

administrations and parties is shocking and utterly

undeniable purely by listing all the names and positions.

Now it continues under Trump. I have heard some in the

alternative media say they can see no evidence of Zionist

manipulation of America and world affairs when it is so

blatant and stuck to your nose. Given there are only 15

million Jewish people in the world compared with a

population of 7.5 billion and 4 to 5 million in total in the US

compared with a population of 326 million it is ridiculous not

to question their scale of influence in global affairs. I am not

talking about a ‘Jewish plot’ but the actions of inner-core or

Rothschild Zionists in league with those from other

backgrounds and groupings. The ‘antiSemitic’ card is thrown

to intimidate people into silence. The idea is to ensure that

anyone who asks such obvious questions is immediately

deemed a racist and systematically vilified while the Israeli

state can openly urge Jewish people not to marry and have

children with non-Jews with no problem at all. Zionism is

actually the most racist creed on Earth while accusing

everyone else of racism. There we have the inversion again.

Zionist networks operate everywhere including the British

Friends of Israel, the Henry Jackson Society and the French

Jewish umbrella group CRIF known as the ‘French AIPAC’.

The Henry Jackson Society is a vehemently pro-Israel

version of the US Neocons. International patrons include

ultra-Zionist Robert Kagan, William Kistrol, Richard Perle,

Michael Chertoff and others. One of the first moves by

Emmanuel Macron after winning the French presidency was

to drop one of his party’s candidates after pressure by CRIF

and other Jewish lobby groups claiming he was antiSemitic

for supporting the Israel boycott movement, BDS. Macron’s

opponent, Marine Le Pen, is also in the Zionist pocket while

being labelled racist against Muslims. How does Israel, a

country of just eight million people, have such global

influence and such a say on the world stage? Here you have

your answer, or part of it.

‘Moderate’ extremists The Spider and its Web have

hijacked the term ‘progressive’ and used it as cover for

fascism and mass murder and to sell its extremist placemen

and women in political office as ‘the middle ground’,

‘centrist’ and ‘moderate’. You see this increasing with

Conservative parties of the so-called ‘Right’ as you do with

progressives of the so-called ‘Left’. War criminals and

‘centrists’ like Tony Blair condemn extremism while

producing fake dossiers to justify slaughter of the innocent

and ongoing death and mayhem for tens of millions. Blair in

so many ways is the blueprint for extremists who claim the

‘centre ground’. They are all pro-EU, pro-NATO, pro-war, pro-

Israel and Zionism, pro-global warming hoax, pro-everything

The System wants; and anti-Russia and anti-anyone the El-

ite choose to target and demonise. Obama was basically the

Blair blueprint and so are leaders like Macron in France,

Angela Merkel in Germany, Charles Michel in Belgium, Justin

Trudeau in Canada, Malcolm Turnbull in Australia, Stefan

Lofven in Sweden, Leo Varadkar in Ireland, Nicola Sturgeon

in Scotland, Aleksandra Vučić and Ana Brnabić in Serbia,

Dusko Markovic in Montenegro, Edi Rama in Albania, Alexis

Tsipras in Greece, Paolo Gentiloni in Italy and his

predecessor Matteo Renzi before he lost a referendum while

seeking more centralised control. The world is drowning in

Blair blueprints presenting tyranny as moderation and

following his privately-stated political philosophy of ‘Smile at

everyone and get someone else to stab them in the back’.

Web networks in each country manipulate events to bring

these people to power and always with the mass support of

the Web-controlled mainstream media. Macron is a textbook

case. He is a Rothschild banker who came out of nowhere

with a ‘new party’ and claiming to be independent when he

is a 100 percent creation of the Establishment just like

Hollande and Sarkozy from ‘different’ parties who preceded

him. He was a minister in the Hollande abomination of a

government. Macron’s ‘new party’ was simply to overcome

the stigma of the discredited major parties that he would

have otherwise represented as a natural successor to the

truly appalling François Hollande who managed the lowest

public approval rating in French political history at just four

percent. Italian psychiatrist Dr Adriano Segatori said in a

video interview that Macron, who married his schoolteacher

24 years his senior, is a dangerous psychopath who could

potentially ruin France. His behaviour since taking office

supports this. They are all psychopaths – that’s why they

get the job. Segatori claimed that Macron ‘has a full blown

case of narcissism’ that is ‘malevolent’ and needs the

admiration of others to compensate for a massive inferiority

complex (see Trump). This is a psychological assessment

that could apply to all these Web place men and women

called ‘world leaders’. Hollande endorsed Macron for

president as did the entire political, media and financial

Establishment and other Web creations and clones including

EU dark suits, Angela Merkel and Barack Obama. What was

that about foreign countries interfering in the elections of

others?

Russia is constantly accused of this with no convincing

evidence but when it is openly done by Western leaders

nothing is said so long as they support the Archontic choice.

The Brexit campaign saw Obama making statements in

support of Britain staying in the EU and so did the

International Monetary Fund (IMF), world leaders and almost

the entirety of the British Establishment and the left-to-right

political class. All this is the result of Web coordination and

perception programming of the clone-like political mind.

Enough people in France voted for Macron in 2017 for him to

beat the anti-EU, stop mass-immigration Marine Le Pen

because that is what the media and political establishment

told them to do. The technique is easy. Promote your

candidate as the new messiah (as the British media did with

Blair) and condemn the opponent as the Devil incarnate or

an unelectable disaster. Le Pen said that whatever the result

of the election a woman would lead France, either her or

Chancellor Merkel. Macron’s first call only minutes after his

victory was to mother Merkel before he went out to address

his followers to a backdrop of the classic Archontic black

pyramid at the Louvre Museum to the sound not of the

French national anthem but that of the European Union. The

day after his inauguration he was off to Berlin to see his

political mummy. Macron is another little boy in short

trousers doing what he’s told, but we should not forget that

11 million voted for Le Pen and a third of French voters

rejected them both by abstaining or spoiling their ballots

and that’s the most since 1969. People across the world are

getting increasingly sick of what they see as a system

rigged against them. Hillary Clinton, with corruption in her

bloodstream, supported Macron and called it a ‘defeat for

those interfering in democracy’ in a laughable reference to

Russia. Those words were written by a woman who has been

interfering in democracy her entire political life. Madonna,

Cher and Katy Perry also celebrated the Macron victory. The

word is again ‘progressive’, a term interchangeable with

filthy-rich and clueless ‘celebrities’ like Madonna, Cher,

Perry, Bono and Geldof. For goodness sake, Bono and Geldof

supported Tony Blair.

Such self-styled progressives support Blair blueprints like

Macron and campaign to overcome the democratic Brexit

vote, promote the global warming hoax, impose political

correctness to silence contrary opinion and dub anyone who

disagrees with them a racist bigot or too old and stupid to

be relevant in their Brave New World. They are so

perceptually controlled, so caught in the manipulated

polarisation of left-right politics that they will fill the streets

in protest at the wars of Bush but stay silent when

‘progressive’ hero Obama does the same. ‘Progressive’

Bernie Sanders can be blatantly manipulated out of the

presidential

nomination

by

the

Clinton-controlled

Democratic hierarchy and then he takes to his feet at the

convention to endorse her for president because ‘we must

not let the “other side” win’. You mean the ‘other side’ that

will do what Clinton would do anyway because they are both

controlled by the same force? If you can’t truly stand up to

the Establishment in your mid-70s Bernie, when are you

ever going to start? What a contribution he would have

made by telling the world that he could not endorse Clinton

or Trump because they were both as bad as each other and

Americans should question why they were being offered

such an illusory ‘choice’. But no, play the game, Bernie, like

a good ‘progressive’. The ‘Left’, ‘Right’, ‘Centre’ political

paradigm is a hoax used as cover to hide basically the same

mindset. They all get their information, opinions and

perceptions from the mainstream media and Mainstream

Everything. They may read a ‘progressive’ paper or a ‘right-

wing’ paper, but both papers are reporting from the same

Postage Stamp.

Some other political tricks and techniques the Web

employs to scam you: Make sure an unelectable candidate

runs against the one that you want to win. When they

wanted Margaret Thatcher to stay in office through the

1980s she would have had to shoot a child in broad daylight

not to have beaten leaders of the opposition Labour Party,

Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock. When Labour leader Tony

Blair was their man they pitched against him William Hague,

Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard, all of them fresh

from their charisma-bypass operations. The new, young,

‘change’ and ‘anti-war’ candidate Barack Obama faced the

elderly warmonger John McCain and his dippy running mate

Sarah Palin, and in his second election it was the multi-

millionaire and clearly Establishment-to-his-fingertips Mitt

Romney. Some who are knowingly part of the Web machine

set out to lose (and later get their reward) because they are

well aware that the other candidate is the Web choice.

Father George Bush wasn’t trying in his campaign against

Bill Clinton and why did Al Gore do so little to challenge the

2000 presidential election count in Florida so obviously

manipulated in favour of Boy Bush? Control of the media

means the Web’s preferred candidate can be presented as

the only possible choice while his or her opponent is

constantly berated, ridiculed and dismissed. In more

extreme cases scandals can be revealed or cooked up to

stop someone getting into power or circumstances

manipulated to make it impossible to stay in office. The

United States is infamous for doing this in other countries

through Pentagon/CIA-fomented ‘revolutions’ and economic

attacks via the banking system and global bodies like the

IMF which take orders from the Web. Another technique is to

organise Web assets in a political party to overthrow the

target leader and we saw this with Margaret Thatcher in

1990. She was the ‘Iron Lady’ while she was favouring

policies the Web wanted, but she was gone very quickly

once she began to publicly resist further centralisation of

power in the European Union and the constant dilution of

British sovereignty. Simple blackmail is a constantly-used

method of controlling politicians to make sure they follow

your agenda to the letter even if they may not agree with it.

Paedophilia is massively used to do this with politicians and

other influential people provided with children while hidden

cameras are running. The Australian ‘death bed’ Satanist

from earlier said: ‘Politicians are introduced by a carefully

graded set of criteria and situations that enable them to

accept that their victims will be, “Our little secret”.’ A secret

only so long as you do what we want. Those called ‘whips’ in

political parties have the job of pressuring their Members of

Parliament, Congress and the Senate to vote the way the

party hierarchy (Web) demands and blackmail is often their

weapon of choice. Tim Fortescue was a whip under

paedophile and Satanist Prime Minister Edward Heath



between 1970 and 1973. He told the BBC: For anyone with

any sense, who was in trouble, would come to the whips and

tell them the truth, and say now, I’m in a jam, can you help?

It might be debt, it might be ... a scandal involving small

boys, or any kind of scandal in which a member seemed

likely to be mixed up in, they’d come and ask if we could

help and if we could, we did.

And we would do everything we can because we would

store up brownie points ... and if I mean, that sounds a

pretty, pretty nasty reason, but it’s one of the reasons

because if we could get a chap out of trouble then, he will

do as we ask forever more.

F igure 4 6 5 : A fact we should never forget if we are to understand

the world

and what is really going on.

The Web loves to exploit place-people who have scandals

to hide. Gotcha! Political leaders suddenly change policy

because of this and begin to oppose everything they once

claimed to believe in. This is particularly worth noting when

it happens very quickly. Political parties and leaders have no

contract with the electorate and they can say whatever they

want in an election campaign and then do the opposite once

they get into office. Four or five years follow of changing

society against the will of those who voted for you before

another ‘democratic election’ when the whole farce is

repeated. Observe how the British ‘Mother of Parliaments’

structure is now followed across the world in ‘democratic’

countries with only one, two, sometimes three parties with

any chance of forming a government and all answerable in

the shadows to the same force. So-called ‘democracy’ which

we are told to equate with ‘freedom’ is really a vehicle for

dictatorship by the Hidden Hand and in the end not even

one that takes human form. The political and economic

structure of the seen is only a vehicle for those in the





unseen (Fig 465). It’s a mirage, an illusion, a vaudeville

show. The Trumps and Obamas and Bushes and Clintons

may seem to be important and they hijack attention as

illusory centres of power. But they are only lackeys and

gofers for unseen forces with a long-term agenda for total

human subjugation.

This is the Big Secret that they don’t want you to know.

Postscript: Trump announced that he was sending his

ultra-Zionist son-in-law Jared Kushner and ultra-Zionist ‘chief

negotiator’ Jason Greenblatt to head ‘peace talks’ with the

Israelis and Palestinians also involving US/Israel-controlled

Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Jordan and

Egypt. No bias there, then. They are laughing at you.

‘It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished

unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of

trumpets’ – V oltaire

Human history over the past 6,000 years since the

emergence of the new psyche has been defined by war.

Archontically-controlled

Reptilians

and

Greys

have

manipulated wars and conflicts across the world through

their hybrid El-lite with the human population pitched

against itself to divide and rule and create an ongoing

frenzy of violence, fear, suffering and death on which the

hidden controllers feed. This continues today and every day.



F igure 4 6 6 : Why is this so? Because the El-lite and their Archontic

Reptilian

masters want constant war and could not care less how much people

suffer. The

more suffering the better to them.

There is always money for war (Fig 466). You never hear

political leaders say they can’t go to war because the

country can’t afford it. They claim not to have money for the

poor, homeless and hungry, but war? It’s never a problem.

There are so many reasons for this. War is incredibly

profitable for armament giants owned by the El-ite, that are

ridiculously called ‘defence’ contractors when attacking the

innocent is all they care about. The United States spends

enough on ‘defence’ to provide every homeless American

with a one-million-dollar home (Fig 467). ‘Let them eat tanks’ is the cry of modern-day financial/military aristocracy

(Fig 468). In one week alone in April 2017 two Trump-

sanctioned attacks in Syria and Afghanistan cost a minimum

$100 million to launch 59 Tomahawk missiles on a Syrian

airbase and another £ 16 million for dropping the ‘Mother of

All Bombs’ in Afghanistan (with terrible long-term health

consequences for civilians) in the world’s biggest non-

nuclear impact (Fig 469). Those figures only reflect the price

of the missiles and don’t include all the other costs. Drain-

the-swamp Trump significantly militarised the government

by appointing generals and others in defence-related

positions with ties to the armaments industry including

Secretary of Defense General James ‘Mad Dog’ Mattis and

Homeland Security chief General John F. Kelly. Mattis was

paid $242,000, plus $500,000 in vested stock options, when

he was director of submarine, tank and munitions producer

General Dynamics. Kelly was an advisor to DynCorp and had

other arms industry connections. Trump later appointed

General Kelly to be right at his shoulder as White House

Chief of Staff because he ‘wanted a general’ in that position.

National Security Advisor General Herbert Raymond

McMaster is connected with arms industry fronts including

the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS)

which is funded by ExxonMobil (Secretary of State Rex

Tillerson is the former CEO), Hess, Chevron and Boeing.

Tillerson

has

associations

with

CSIS

along

with

representatives from arms manufacturers Lockheed Martin

and Raytheon. Thus McMaster, like Mattis, is anti-Russia,

anti-China and anti-Iran. CSIS told the media there was an

urgent need to deploy the Terminal High Altitude Area

Defense (THAAD) missile system to South Korea to meet the

‘threat’ from the North without pointing out that Lockheed

Martin, THAAD’s primary contractor in a deal worth billions,



funds the Missile Defense Project Program at CSIS. Trump

also named Mark Esper, an executive with ‘defence’ giant

Raytheon, as Army Secretary. Arms companies secure ever-

more influence in government and the Pentagon because

war, death and destruction are so good for business. They

set up or support ‘think tanks’ to push their war agenda with

politicians and media, and one example is the Canadian

Global Affairs Institute (CGAI) which campaigns for Canadian

involvement in America’s overseas conflicts and once

commissioned a ‘survey’ which claimed that ‘Canadians are

willing to send troops into danger even if it leads to deaths

and injuries as long as they believe in the military’s goals’.

The Institute has called for Canada to establish an overseas

spying network akin to the CIA and MI6 and runs ‘military

journalism’ courses for trainee reporters to prepare them to

see the world the way that suits the Institute. You will not be

at all surprised to know that the Canadian Global Affairs

Institute has received funding from major arms

manufacturers. Huffington Post reported that ‘General

Dynamics and Lockheed Martin Canada, as well as Edge

Group, C4i, Com Dev, ENMAX , SMART Technologies, the

Defense News Media Group and Canadian Council of Chief

Executives have all supported CGAI’. Similar organisations

operate in all major countries and they are pushing against

an open door in Canada where the one-party state in the

form of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (Liberal, Web) and his

predecessor Stephen Harper (Conservative, Web) who have

slavishly supported the military agenda of the United States,

Israel and their satellite state Saudi Arabia. Trudeau,

another off-the-shelf Web creation in the model of Macron

and company, is continuing the family business by following

his satanic father Pierre Trudeau (1919-2000) into the

highest level of Canadian government. See The Biggest





Secret and Cathy O’Brien’s Trance-formation of America for

more on Pierre Trudeau.

F igure 4 6 7 : The madness of it all.

F igure 4 6 8 : Don’t feed people – kill them.

F igure 4 6 9 : Priorities of the Death Cult.

I would stress, however, that war is not primarily nor even

majorly about money in the deeper levels of the Web. War



fries much bigger fish. Money is the bonus and not the

ultimate motivation for those in the shadows and in the

know. Nothing changes a society quicker and more

permanently than war and so bombs have become the

calling cards of the ‘moral West’ (Fig 470). Whether it be a

country or a world the same outcome applies. Nothing is

ever the same again. The process is known as ‘creative

destruction’ and involves using war to change a status quo

and install a new one. Then you destroy that status quo and

install a new one (Fig 471). Each new status quo takes you

further along the road to global domination and the Hunger

Games Society. We have seen this with the two world wars.

Power was in far fewer hands after World War I and even

more so after World War II with the creation of global bodies

like the United Nations justified by ‘preventing war’ (which

they haven’t because they were not meant to). War allows

Archontic Reptilian bloodlines to remove problem

governments and leaders, rewrite the map, acquire more

land and resources and dramatically speed the

centralisation of global power. The process of replacing

tribes with nations and nations with superstates has largely

been achieved through war. Establishment of the European

Economic Community – now the EU – was sold to a very

significant extent as a way of stopping another war in

Europe when the force claiming this had started the others.

Major wars are not spontaneous, but long-planned according

to an agenda and sequence dictated from the unseen. The

Old Testament ‘Demiurge’ or Yahweh/Jehovah has long

demanded death, destruction, sacrifice and war. Here’s an

example from the Book of Joshua when ‘The Lord’ (Lord

Archon)

demanded



the

destruction

of

Jericho:

F igure 4 7 0 : We have constant war because war destroys status

quos and

allows another to replace them.

F igure 4 7 1 : This has been happening throughout known human

history in a

process of constant transformation.

Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children of

Israel: none went out, and none came in ... And they

utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and



woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with

the edge of the sword ... And they burnt the city with fire,

and all that was therein: only the silver, and the gold, and

the vessels of brass and of iron, they put into the treasury

of the house of the LORD.

This could have been describing (with missiles and guns

replacing swords) the mass human slaughter during the US

Marines assault on Fallujah, Iraq, in April 2004, when all

escape routes were blocked before the carnage began and

so many civilians were murdered that a soccer stadium had

to be turned into a graveyard. A US general central to what

happened was James ‘Mad Dog’ Mattis, the Trump choice for

Secretary of Defense at the Pentagon. This is where his mad

dog nickname came from. Mattis is a psychopath who has

said:

I come in peace. I didn’t bring artillery. But I’m pleading

with you, with tears in my eyes: If you fuck with me, I’ll kill

you all.

Find the enemy that wants to end this experiment [in

American democracy] and kill every one of them until

they’re so sick of the killing that they leave us and our

freedoms intact.

Be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill

everybody you meet.

So it’s a hell of a lot of fun to shoot them. Actually it’s

quite fun to fight them, you know. It’s a hell of a hoot. It’s

fun to shoot some people. I’ll be right up there with you. I

like brawling.

F igure 4 7 2 : Sleep well.

He’s such a nice man, very balanced, and in charge of the

US military with Trump, another psychopath, on the

sidelines (Fig 472). ‘The Lord’ behind biblical mass-slaughter

is still doing the same today only now with weapons that

make death and destruction virtually limitless with the

capacity to destroy everyone and everything. At the same

time politicians deny that their Murder Inc has any effect on

creating terrorists who are full of hate for those who do this

to their families and countries. Those with a fragment of

empathy, compassion and intelligence would find it hard to

comprehend the calculated and emotionless death and

destruction of men, women and children, mostly with brown

faces, by these Western psychopaths; but we are talking

about the mentality that sacrifices children. Their software is

programmed not to feel empathy and compassion and so

there are no limits to their evil and inhumanity. Indeed, they

are not human in our understanding of human. I have said

over and over that people should not judge what these

software programs will do on the basis of what they would

do. The bloodlines are not the same as you and don’t

comprehend, let alone express, the fail-safe mechanism of

behaviour – empathy. Without empathy and compassion

there are no emotional consequences for whatever they do

and thus no limits.

Connecting the dots ...

I have exposed the manipulated background to so many

wars and terrorist attacks in the enormous body of research

and evidence in my other books, but here is a sequence of

events since the turn of the Millennium to show how wars

are planned and played out to a blueprint ultimately

decided in the unseen. We can pick up this story in the year

1998, but it was in the planning for decades and in the

unseen for far, far longer. Democon Zbigniew Brzezinski,

former National Security Advisor to President Jimmy Carter

and co-founder with David Rockefeller of the El-lite’s

Trilateral Commission, published a book in 1998 entitled The

Grand Chessboard. Brzezinski, who died in 2017, wrote that

for America (the Web) to control the world they had to

control Eurasia. This is the biggest landmass on Earth

stretching from Europe in the east to China in the west and

from Russia in the north to the Middle East and India in the

south (Fig 473). An important point to make about

Brzezinski’s books and statements is that when he tells you

what he thinks should happen he is revealing what is

planned to happen. I’ll come back to Eurasia in a moment,

but first a devastating exercise in dot-connecting that will

lead us back there. We must switch at this point from the

Brzezinski Democon wing of the Hidden Hand to the

Neocons in the Republican Party – people like Dick Cheney,

Donald Rumsfeld, Paul Wolfowitz, Doug Zakheim, Robert

Kagan, William Kristol and Richard Perle (Fig 474). They

were all members of the Washington-based Project for the

New American Century (PNAC), co-founded in 1997 by

hardline Zionists Kagan and Kristol. Robert Kagan is a

member of the El-ite’s Council on Foreign Relations,

established in 1921 by J.D. Rockefeller to drive US foreign

policy, and a senior fellow at another El-ite asset, the

Brookings Institution. He also writes a weekly column in the

El-ite-controlled Washington Post owned by Jeff Bezos, who

also owns Amazon. William Kristol is ‘editor at large’ of the

Neocon rag The Weekly Standard and a ‘political analyst’

who regularly appears on El-ite-controlled television

networks. ‘Political analyst’ is a cover for selling the

Neocon/Democon Hidden Hand agenda which means

sending America’s young people into overseas wars of El-lite

conquest to mass-murder the innocent and presenting

US/UK-instigated terrorism against target governments as a

‘peoples’ revolution’. The one proviso for Kagan and Kristol

in their bomb-everyone insanity is that they never see a gun

fired in anger because a car backfiring would ensure that

these spineless cowards would leave a terrible mess in the

street. Neocon leadership is dominated by secret society

Zionists and a front for Sabbatean Frankism and its agenda

for global control. The Project for the New American Century

produced a policy document in September 2000 entitled

‘Rebuilding America’s Defences – Strategy, Forces and

Resources For A New Century’. This called for ‘American

forces to fight and decisively win multiple, simultaneous

major theater wars’ and it named a series of countries listed

for ‘regime change’ by those wars: Iraq, Libya, Syria,

Lebanon, Iran, North Korea and China – ‘American and allied

power [should provide] the spur to the process of

democratisation in China.’ A few months later in January

2001 the PNAC took over the Pentagon through Secretary of

Defense Donald Rumsfeld, his more powerful ‘deputy’,

Zionist Paul Wolfowitz, and Pentagon budget controller,

Zionist Dov Zakheim, along with other PNAC assets in

influential Pentagon positions. They took over the White

House through Dick Cheney, the ‘Vice’-President who

completely dominated the hapless and hopeless Boy Bush.

Another highly significant PNAC asset was Richard Perle,

known as the Prince of Darkness, working mostly in the

background ducking, weaving and manipulating together

with Kagan and Kristol when they weren’t hiding behind the

sofa telling others to go and fight. Zionist extremist Perle is

a close friend of Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu as is Trump

and his son-in-law and senior advisor Jared Kushner. Perle

produced a policy document for Netanyahu in 1996, A Clean

Break: A New Strategy for Securing the Realm which called

for the removing of Saddam Hussein in Iraq and weakening





the

Assad

government

in

Syria.

Perle

said:

F igure 4 7 3 : Eurasia and connected regions.

F igure 4 7 4 : Months before they came to power directly and

indirectly with Boy

George Bush these Zionist bullies and cowards published the

blueprint for war

and regime change that has been followed ever since.

Israel can shape its strategic environment, in cooperation

with Turkey and Jordan, by weakening, containing, and

even rolling back Syria. This effort can focus on removing

Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq – an important Israeli

strategic objective in its own right – as a means of foiling

Syria’s regional ambitions.

Turkey and Israel-vassal Jordan have since been used to

‘roll back Syria’ and Perle’s strategy was followed and

expanded by the Project for the New American Century with

which he was centrally involved with a stream of other Israel

assets. US General Wesley Clark, a war criminal himself for

his role in the bombing of Serbia during the Kosovo conflict,

gave further confirmation of the plan in speeches and an

interview with television station Democracy Now which you

can see on the Internet. Clark, a retired four-star general

and former Supreme Allied Commander of NATO, said that

about ten days after 9/11 he went to the Pentagon to meet

with PNAC Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and his

PNAC deputy Paul Wolfowitz and then went downstairs to

see members of the Pentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff who once

worked for him. Clark went on:

... one of the generals called me in. He said, ‘Sir, you’ve

got to come in and talk to me a second.’ I said, ‘Well,

you’re too busy.’ He said, ‘No, no.’ He says, ‘We’ve made

the decision we’re going to war with Iraq.’ This was on or

about the 20th of September. I said, ‘We’re going to war

with Iraq? Why?’ He said, ‘I don’t know.’ He said, ‘I guess

they don’t know what else to do.’

So I said, ‘Well, did they find some information connecting

Saddam to al-Qaeda?’ He said, ‘No, no.’ He says, ‘There’s

nothing new that way. They just made the decision to go

to war with Iraq.’ He said, ‘I guess it’s like we don’t know

what to do about terrorists, but we’ve got a good military

and we can take down governments.’ And he said, ‘I guess

if the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem has

to look like a nail.’

Such is the compartmentalisation of knowledge that this

general would not have known the reason for targeting Iraq

despite his position, but I can help him with his

bewilderment. Iraq was first on the list for regime change by

the Zionist-created-and-controlled PNAC and Zionist Perle’s

document for Netanyahu and both were answering to

hidden powers that were orchestrating the whole sequence

that would follow. No one was mentioning Iraq publicly until

2002 when the demonisation and fear campaign began

against Saddam and Iraq which led to the invasion in March

2003. The excuse was Saddam’s ‘weapons of mass

destruction’ which they knew didn’t exist, but they needed a

public justification to kick off the PNAC list of regime

changes. Almost to the first bombs being dropped Web

puppets Bush and Blair were claiming that the invasion

could still be avoided if Saddam complied with their

demands, when in truth the war had been planned long

before. Wesley Clark said that he returned to the Pentagon a

few weeks later by which time the US was bombing

Afghanistan and he met the same general. Clark recalled:

I said, ‘Are we still going to war with Iraq?’ And he said,

‘Oh, it’s worse than that.’ He reached over on his desk. He

picked up a piece of paper. And he said, ‘I just got this

down from upstairs’ – meaning the Secretary of Defense’s

office – ‘today.’ And he said, ‘This is a memo that

describes how we’re going to take out seven countries in

five years, starting with Iraq, and then Syria, Lebanon,

Libya, Somalia, Sudan and, finishing off, Iran.’

I said, ‘Is it classified?’ He said, ‘Yes, sir.’ I said, ‘Well, don’t

show it to me.’ And I saw him a year or so ago, and I said,



‘You remember that?’ He said, ‘Sir, I didn’t show you that

memo! I didn’t show it to you.

F igure 4 7 5 : In the years since Brzezinski wrote of the need to

dominate

Eurasia we have seen country after country in and near that region

targeted by

the US and the West.

Clark added that the Project for the New American

Century ‘wanted us to destabilise the Middle East, turn it

upside down, make it under our control’. PNAC may have

been the vehicle but this was still an organisation of

subordinate gofers doing the bidding in the hierarchy of fear

of those much further in the shadows that take orders

directly from The Spider. The simple rule is this: if you can

see them they are gofers and yes-people and not the source

of the power to which they answer. When they do what

they’re told, all is fine, but if they refuse ... BIG mistake.

PNAC was so exposed and discredited by the alternative

media post-9/11 that the same force today operates through

other fronts most notably the Foreign Policy Initiative

founded by the same Kagan and Kristol and another Zionist

Dan Senor, a columnist and political adviser. This

organisation has the ear of Mad Dog Mattis and National

Security Advisor McMaster. Now we can return to

Brzezinski’s Eurasia from this background and see how this

fits with countries targeted by the PNAC and Israel (same

thing) and those like Russia that have been systematically

demonised. They are all in or on the fringes of Eurasia (Fig

475). This is yet another coincidence, nothing to worry

about.

The real reason for 9/11

Neocons had the problem of justifying all the war and

regime change they were planning and so cue the always

dependable Problem-Reaction-Solution. Their September

2000 document said that the ‘process of transformation ...

[war and regime change] ... is likely to be a long one, absent

some catastrophic and catalysing event – like a new Pearl

Harbor’. A year to the month after the publication of that

PNAC document and nine months after those who wrote it

came to power with Bush in the White House and Pentagon,

the United States experienced what Bush called at the time

‘the Pearl Harbor of the 21st century’. If the mainstream

media were peopled by proper journalists they would have

made the connection in a flash, but my experience is that

most have never heard of the Project for the New American

Century and those that have don’t see – or specifically

ignore – its foundation significance to 9/11 and all that has

followed. But then conspiracies don’t exist, do they? They’re

only ‘theories’. I have taken apart the official story of 9/11 in

a combination of Alice in Wonderland and the World Trade

Center Disaster and The David Icke Guide to the Global

Conspiracy (plus a major chapter in The Perception

Deception) and I won’t repeat all the detail here. Enough to

say that the official fairy tale is an absurdity which does not

stand up to the mildest scrutiny and came from the same

lying mouths that told us there were weapons of mass

destruction in Iraq when they knew there were not (Fig 476).

The mainstream media agree they were lied to over Iraq

and yet accept every word about 9/11 when both narratives

came from the same people – not just the same agencies

and governments – the same people. Even worse the media

ridicule and attack those like me who do have a mind of

their own and expose how 9/11 was created by elements

within the US, Israeli, UK and Saudi Arabian government,

intelligence and military networks to justify the global ‘war

on terror’ (war on freedom) and targeting countries listed by

the PNAC. Pathetic doesn’t even begin to describe the

behaviour of alleged ‘journalists’ and the part they so

crucially play in the takeover of Planet Earth by insane

psychopaths. Some of the most shockingly uninformed

people I have ever met around the world have been

journalists and politicians. The attacks of September 11th



were based on a blueprint first committed to paper in the

early 1960s and called Operation Northwoods. This was the

work of the Pentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1962 led by the

chairman Lyman L. Lemnitzer which the Kennedy

government eventually blocked. Operation Northwoods was

the plan for the US military, CIA and other agencies to stage

terrorist attacks in the United States and elsewhere and

blame them on Cuba to justify an invasion to remove Fidel

Castro. James Bamford, a former investigative producer with

ABC, described Operation Northwood in his book, Body of

Secrets, about the US National Security Agency (NSA). He

wrote:

F igure 4 7 6 : The attacks of 9/11 were the excuse that justified the

war on terror

and began the process of long-planned ‘regime-change’ in the Middle

East.

Code named Operation Northwoods, the plan, which had

the written approval of the Chairman and every member

of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called for innocent people to be

shot on American streets; for boats carrying refugees

fleeing Cuba to be sunk on the high seas; for a wave of

violent terrorism to be launched in Washington, D.C.,

Miami, and elsewhere.

People would be framed for bombings they did not

commit; planes would be hijacked. Using phony evidence,

all of it would be blamed on Castro, thus giving Lemnitzer

and his cabal the excuse, as well as the public and

international backing, they needed to launch their war.

This is what happened on 9/11 and has been happening

since with Problem-Reaction-Solution or ‘false flag’ terror

attacks in the United States, Europe, Middle East and

elsewhere. Another Pentagon project known as Operation

Mongoose proposed similar false flag attacks to target Cuba

including to ‘create an incident which has the appearance of

an attack on U.S. facilities (GMO) in Cuba, thus providing an

excuse for use of U.S. military might to overthrow the

current government of Cuba’. Chiefs of Staff chairman

Lemnitzer was removed by President Kennedy after

presenting Operation Northwoods (the military-industrial

complex was not pleased by his sacking) but he was then

appointed Supreme Allied Commander of NATO! How apt

that Operation Northwoods was first made public in 1997 by

the John F. Kennedy Assassinations Records Review Board

and what timing that a more complete version was posted

online by the National Security Archive on April 30th, 2001,

just five months before the foundation themes of the

document happened for real on September 11th. The official

story of 9/11 is so ridiculous and untenable that building and

structural experts formed Architects and Engineers for 9/11

Truth (ae911truth.org) to highlight the fact that the explanation for why the twin towers fell makes no

engineering sense. Professional pilots formed Pilots for 9/11

Truth (pilotsfor911truth.org) to expose countless and glaring flaws in the story of how ‘Muslim hijackers’ supposedly

learned to fly on simulators and single-engined planes and

yet somehow managed to fly wide-bodied jets with such

amazing skill that a Lufthansa pilot of 28 years’ experience

flying wide-bodied aircraft told me he could not have done

it. One ‘hijacker pilot’ was so bad flying single-engined

aircraft that his instructor said he was surprised he could

even drive a car. My contention, along with others, is that

the planes which left the airports in Boston, Newark and

Washington that September morning were not those that

crashed in New York and were said to have crashed in

Pennsylvania and the Pentagon (there is scant evidence for

the last two if you care to look in detail at the lack of

credible debris left behind). I say the planes that hit the Twin

Towers were drones controlled from the ground. We were led

to believe immediately after the attacks that technology did

not exist for the planes to be taken over and flown as

drones. President Bush said days later that he would provide

federal funding to develop remote control technology that

could be used during hijackings when that technology had

officially existed for commercial aircraft for nearly 20 years

and much longer within the military. Staged attacks using

drone commercial aircraft flown from a ground station were

part of Operation Northwoods in 1962. The Northwoods

document planned the following:

An aircraft at Elgin AFB would be painted and numbered

as an exact duplicate for a civil registered aircraft

belonging to a CIA proprietary organization in the Miami

area. At a designated time the duplicate would be

substituted for the actual civil aircraft and would be

loaded with the selected passengers, all boarded under

carefully prepared aliases [remember how few passengers

were on the 9/11 aircraft].

The actual registered aircraft would be converted to a

drone. Take off times of the drone aircraft and the actual

aircraft will be scheduled to allow a rendezvous south of

Florida.

From the rendezvous point the passenger-carrying aircraft

will descend to minimum altitude and go directly into an

auxiliary field at Elgin AFB where arrangements will have

been made to evacuate the passengers and return the

aircraft to its original status. The drone aircraft meanwhile

will continue to fly the filed flight plan. When over Cuba

the drone will be transmitting on the international distress

frequency a ‘May Day’ message stating he is under attack

by Cuban MiG aircraft.

The transmission will be interrupted by destruction of the

aircraft, which will be triggered by radio signal. This will

allow ICAO [International Civil Aviation Organization] radio

stations in the Western Hemisphere to tell the U.S. what

has happened to the aircraft instead of the U.S. trying to

‘sell’ the incident.

These are the themes and techniques that were used to

pull off the gigantic illusion that was 9/11. ‘They would

never do that?’ They have killed hundreds of millions in their

manipulated wars century after century orchestrated by

Archontically-possessed psychopaths. Do we really think

that three thousand people on 9/11 have any relevance to

them? They were just a means to an end like all the others.

The Bush administration had to be forced kicking, screaming

and spitting to set up the 9/11 Commission to ‘investigate’

what happened and they did everything they could to make

it as difficult as possible to uncover the truth including the

allocation of seriously inadequate funding. Bush and Cheney

(in other words, Cheney) even tried to make Zionist

extremist Henry Kissinger the Commission chairman, an

appointment so outrageous in terms of a cover-up that he

had to withdraw. I have exposed in other books the Zionist

involvement in the final report of the Commission which co-

chairs Thomas Kean and Lee Hamilton said afterwards had

been ‘set up to fail’. Why would you do this if you cared

about three thousand dead people and wanted to establish

what happened and how? Another simple answer: They

knew what happened and how – they just didn’t want the

public to know.

And the solution is ...

Now the Zionist and American manipulators had their ‘new

Pearl Harbor’ they could begin to pick off their target

countries. Afghanistan was attacked first on the way to Iraq

and the rest of the PNAC hit-list. The excuse was that

Osama bin Laden was the ‘mastermind’ of September 11th

and he was being protected by the Taliban in Afghanistan

who refused to hand him over. More bombing of the

innocent or ‘collateral damage’ followed as the American

military embarked on another glorious slaughter with Britain

as always in tow and Israel cheering from the sidelines and

the shadows. I mentioned earlier the late Aaron Russo, an

award-winning filmmaker who produced Trading Places with

Eddie Murphy, and his conversation with lawyer and

businessman Nick Rockefeller about the origin of the

feminist movement and ‘Women’s Lib’. Russo also revealed

that Rockefeller told him nearly a year before 9/11 that

there would be an event leading to the invasion of

Afghanistan and Iraq to take over the oil fields and establish

a base in the Middle East. Russo would see soldiers looking

in caves in Afghanistan and Pakistan for Osama bin Laden.

There would be an ‘endless war on terror where there’s no

real enemy’ and the whole thing would be a ‘giant hoax’.

Rockefeller said that ‘the people have to be ruled’ and the

population reduced by at least half, and he talked of the

plan for mass-microchipping of what he called the ‘serfs’. An

added benefit – and major goal – of the Afghan invasion was

that poppy-growing in Afghanistan could now reach record

levels again after being stopped on the orders of the

Taliban. Today 90 percent of the world’s production of heroin

starts out in the poppy fields of Afghanistan and this has

generated a global epidemic of addiction (not least in the

US). The CIA has a long connection with Pakistan

InterServices

Intelligence

(ISI)

in

the

poppies-to-

opium/heroin trade that generates enormous sums of

money (with its cocaine operation out of South America) to

fund covert projects untraceable through official channels

and paper trails. ISI is a Web organisation as with all

intelligence agencies and operates in many countries. The

Times of India claimed that the then head of ISI, Mahmood

Ahmed, arranged through a third party the transfer of

$100,000 to ‘lead hijacker’ Mohammed Atta and this was

taken to be connected to the 9/11 plot. I say it was actually

connected to the drug-running operation run by the CIA and

ISI in which Atta was involved as a gofer. This allowed the

CIA to put Atta and company in the right place at the right

time (wrong place and time for them) to be blamed for 9/11.

‘Muslim fanatic’ Atta lived with a white and seriously non-

Muslim American girlfriend in Venice, Florida, close to the

now infamous Venice airport and flying school. She

describes in an interview you can see on the Internet how

Atta was often drunk, his favourite food was pork and

whenever they ran out of cocaine he would go over to the

airport and come back with an arm full. This makes perfect

sense because at that time at least Venice Airport was a

conduit through which the CIA flew in cocaine shipments

from South America to be distributed on American streets.

The Clintons and Bushes were both involved in this drug

trade through the Mena airstrip in Arkansas where Bill

Clinton was the governor before moving to the White House.

The Clinton-Bush ‘body count’ of dead people includes

those, among them children, who saw what they should not

have seen at Mena or were starting to talk about their

involvement (see ... And The Truth Shall Set You Free).

English author and activist Shaun Attwood published a book

in 2016 called American Made that told the story of pilot

Barry Seal and his involvement with Father Bush and Bill

Clinton in this drug-running operation. Seal was eventually

murdered to protect the secrets. The film of the same name

starring Tom Cruise released in 2017 was a pale shadow of

the real story. Shaun Attwood was kind enough to

acknowledge the part my own work played in inspiring the

writing of American Made and it has been so great over the

years to see others picking up the baton and running with it

in their own area of interest. The more the better, I say. US

wars in Vietnam and Southeast Asia were also majorly drug-

related together with other reasons, and drugs were

smuggled into America by the El-lite and their agents in the

coffins of dead soldiers. The real world is certainly not the

one that you see on the news. ISI’s Mahmood Ahmed was

having breakfast in Washington on the morning of 9/11 with

Senator Bob Graham and representative Porter Goss who

would subsequently head a joint Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence and House Permanent Select Committee on

Intelligence inquiry into 9/11 which, shall we say, did not

uncover the truth. Graham and Goss had been part of a US

delegation to Islamabad, Pakistan, barely two weeks before

9/11 during which they met with Mahmoud Ahmed, other ISI

officials and President Pervez Musharraf. Porter Goss, an

intelligence insider to his fingertips, has a long history with

the CIA and became its director in 2004.

The alleged hijackers on 9/11 were overwhelmingly

connected to Saudi Arabia, but no action was taken against

the Saudis or their British-installed fake ‘royal’ family which

goes on being supplied with massive amounts of hi-tech

weapons by the US and UK to oppress its people and kill

civilians on a vast scale in Yemen through bombing and

subsequent disease and famine. Saudi ‘royals’ are

Sabbatean Frankist Dönmeh Web assets and they can do

what they like so long as they continue to serve their hidden

masters. Trump describes the evil Saudi Arabian regime as

‘friends and allies’ and the same with vicious dictator Recep

Tayyip Erdogan in Sabbatean Frankist Turkey who wants to

reinstate an equivalent of the Ottoman Empire. It is

important not to fall for the myth that the world can be

broken down on racial, ethnic and religious grounds. This

illusion is only for the masses. There are no such divisions

for Web assets because they know it is all nonsense and

Saudi Arabia (centre of Islam) is on the same side as Israel

(centre of Zionist Judaism) and the US/UK (which claim to be

‘Christian’). They are all controlled by the same Web and

work as one unit when you would expect that especially

Israel and Saudi Arabia would be in opposing camps. Saudi

Arabia does not fund and arm people that kill Jews, but

those who kill other non-Dönmeh Muslims.

The Saudi bin Laden family are closely connected with the

‘royals’ and with the Bush family through Father George

Bush who did business with them for the Carlyle Group, a

Washington-based private equity and asset management

company which handled the assets of the Saudi Binladen

Corporation. Democon Zbigniew Brzezinski told French news

magazine, Le Nouvel Observateur, in 1998, that when he

was National Security Advisor to President Jimmy Carter in

the late 1970s he arranged for the arming, training and

funding of ‘freedom-fighters’ in Afghanistan that became

known as the Mujahedeen. Brzezinski wanted them to

attack the Soviet satellite government in the capital Kabul

to force the Soviet Union to invade. He described this as

giving the Soviets ‘their Vietnam’ and he did so at a cost of

1.5 million Afghan lives. The US and Saudi Arabia gave the

Mujahedeen, involving fighters from 40 Muslim countries,

billions in financial and military aid under the CIA’s

Operation Cyclone and this was funnelled into Afghanistan

by the Pakistan ISI which also provided military training

together with the Pakistan military and Britain’s MI6 and

SAS (the elite Special Air Service unit of the British army).

Mujahedeen terrorists were also trained by the CIA in

Virginia and Brooklyn, New York, ironically close to the Twin

Towers. These many and various organisations are all Web

assets and this was the conduit for coordination against the

Soviets and later for 9/11. The Mujahedeen and the Taliban

were the ‘good guys’ at first and under the subsequent

Reagan-Father Bush regime in the 1980s the front man of

Mujahedeen resistance to the Soviets became ... Osama bin

Laden. Transition in Afghanistan from Brzezinski-Carter

(‘Democrat’) to Reagan-Bush (Republican) was predictably

seamless in the one-party state. The Mujahedeen later

morphed into al-Qaeda and the ‘good guys’ were now

demonised by the US because that suited the next stage of

the plan. Former British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said

shortly before he suddenly died in 2005 that ‘al-Qaeda’

means ‘the base’ or ‘database’ and is a reference to the CIA

database of Mujahedeen fighters brought together to fight

the Soviets. Cook said:

The truth is, there is no Islamic army or terrorist group

called al-Qaeda, and any informed intelligence officer

knows this. But, there is a propaganda campaign to make

the public believe in the presence of an intensified entity

representing the ‘devil’ only in order to drive TV watchers

to accept a unified international leadership for a war

against terrorism. The country behind this propaganda is

the United States.

Within a month Cook was dead from a ‘heart attack’.

There are now groups calling themselves ‘al-Qaeda’ who

believed it existed because the US told them it did! Al-

Qaeda was wrongly blamed for 9/11 to justify the ‘war on

[of] terror’ and triggering the PNAC hit-list and the same

network is now also known as ISIS/ISIL/Islamic State, Al-

Nusra Front, Tahrir al-Sham and further south in Africa as

Boko Haram. All are ultimately controlled by the United

States, Britain and Israel (the Web). I’ll have more about this

in the next chapter.

War criminals everywhere Boy George Bush, Tony

Blair and their corrupt cohorts lied about weapons of mass

destruction in Iraq because it was the next target after

Afghanistan. In the absence of a reason to invade and

remove Saddam Hussein they just made one up. Blair,

rightly known as Bliar, told the House of Commons that

Saddam could strike British targets within 45 minutes and

Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, gave his laughable

and childlike performance at the United Nations telling the

world a load of absolute nonsense about the lethal danger

posed by Saddam’s (nonexistent) chemical weapons. We

had the usual ‘threat to our way of life’ scam and the

technique described by Nazi military leader Hermann

Goering. He said that it was always a simple matter to drag

the people into war whether in a democracy, fascist or

communist dictatorship ... ‘All you have to do is tell them

they are being attacked and denounce the pacifists for lack

of patriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works

the same way in any country.’ Dr David Kelly, a British UN

weapons inspector with long experience in Iraq, had the

knowledge to demolish the El-lite’s manufactured excuse for

war and he told the BBC that the Blair/Alastair

Campbell/British Intelligence dossier making the case for

invasion had been ‘sexed up’. Shortly afterwards he went for

a walk and ‘committed suicide’ in the most obvious of

murders. Was Saddam a nice man? No, certainly not. He

was a tyrant put into power by CIA-instigated coups and

supplied by United States companies with chemical

weapons to use against Iran after Iraq invaded in the 1980s.

They were also employed to gas Kurdish people in 1988.

The middle man in the chemical weapons shipments to

Saddam was Neocon Donald Rumsfeld as confirmed in

thousands of State Department documents related to the

Iraq-Iran war that were declassified and released under the

Freedom of Information Act. They included viruses such as

anthrax and bubonic plague. The same Rumsfeld would be

US Secretary of Defense at the time of 9/11 and the

invasion of Iraq which was sold to the public as necessary to

stop Saddam using chemical weapons that Rumsfeld helped

to supply (Fig 477). By then Saddam had got rid of them as

the United States and Britain both knew. Saddam was a

seriously nasty piece of work, but was he in the same

league for death and destruction as the force plotting his

removal? No, again, not even close. I vehemently oppose

some of the outrageous injustices that happen in Iran in the



name of religious extremism – not least to gay people – but

the same question and answer applies to Iran as it does to

Saddam when you compare that country with the killing

machine of the US, UK and the West in general. How could

Saddam and Iran compete with those who number their

dead and injured in millions and cumulatively over centuries

and generations in billions?

F igure 4 7 7 : Best of pals – Donald Rumsfeld meets Saddam in 1983

as an

envoy for President Reagan and a middleman in supplying Saddam

with

chemical weapons for use against Iran.

Libya was next in line and the same story was used to

target Colonel Muammar Gaddafi that was later employed

against President Assad in Syria. This can be summarised

as: ‘He’s killing his own people.’ To justify attacking and

removing sovereign governments the definition of

sovereignty had to be changed from meaning the

government of a country to meaning its population. This

way you can say we have to protect the people’s

sovereignty in the face of a hostile government and remove

your target leader without officially intervening in the

sovereignty of the country. Okay, time to welcome back

George Soros. He’s been away too long. Zionist Soros began

the process of changing the definition of sovereignty in a

2004 article in Foreign Policy magazine then owned by the

El-lite’s Carnegie Endowment for International Peace which

was exposed by a Congressional Committee in the 1950s for

manipulating war (see ... And The Truth Shall Set You Free).

Foreign Policy has since been sold to the Jeff Bezos-owned

Washington Post. The Soros article was titled ‘The People’s

Sovereignty’:

... True sovereignty belongs to the people, who in turn

delegate it to their governments. If governments abuse

the authority entrusted to them and citizens have no

opportunity to correct such abuses, outside interference is

justified. By specifying that sovereignty is based on the

people, the international community can penetrate nation-

states’ borders to protect the rights of citizens.

In particular, the principle of the people’s sovereignty can

help solve two modern challenges: the obstacles to

delivering aid effectively to sovereign states, and the

obstacles to global collective action dealing with states

experiencing internal conflict ...

... the rulers of a sovereign state have a responsibility to

protect the state’s citizens. When they fail to do so, the

responsibility is transferred to the international

community. Global attention is often the only lifeline

available to the oppressed.

Soros could not give a damn about oppressed people –

except in the sense of creating them – and he was preparing

the ground for the fake ‘Arab Spring’ that he knew was

coming. The basis of what Soros was demanding in 2004

was adopted the following year by the United Nations’

Security Council and General Assembly under a doctrine

called ‘The Responsibility to Protect’. How synchronistic then

that Soros networks connected to his Open Society

Foundations have become infamous among genuine

researchers for covertly manipulating ‘people’s revolutions’

in Ukraine, Georgia, the Middle East and elsewhere – usually

related to a colour. We have had the Orange Revolution

(Ukraine), Jasmine Revolution (Tunisia), Lotus Revolution

(Egypt), Rose Revolution (Georgia), Tulip Revolution

(Kyrgyzstan), and the failed Green Revolution (Iran). There

are also the attempted ‘Red-shirt’ revolutions in Thailand

where the Open Society network seeks to impose further

Western (Web) control. The ‘Rose’ version placed into power

a US asset and little boy in short trousers, Mikheil

Saakashvili, who would later turn up as a Ukrainian politician

appointed Governor of Odessa by Ukraine president Petro

Poroshenko after he was installed in a second Ukrainian

‘revolution’ (coup) by the United States and Soros in 2014.

WikiLeaks documents reveal that Poroshenko was a US

asset in Ukraine long before he came to power and he was

handed the presidency by Victoria Nuland, the Zionist US

Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian

Affairs who is married to Robert Kagan ... co-founder of The

Project for the New American Century (Fig 478). Small world,

eh? Nuland was exposed in a leaked phone recording telling

the US Ambassador to Ukraine who she wanted in the

government and, by the way, she was also exposed by

Macedonian Intelligence for political manipulation there.

Ukraine’s second fake ‘revolution’ was triggered by protests

in Maidan Nezalezhnosti (‘Independence Square’) in Kiev in

November 2013, after the government of President Viktor

Yanukovych chose to reject the signing of an association

agreement with the European Union, and instead look to

Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union. Protesters became

known as the Maidan Movement. Leaked documents have

confirmed manipulation in the background by the George

Soros network and the control that he had over Ukraine

after Yanukovych fled to Russia. Anywhere that Soros goes



the US State Department and Israel goes with him.

Everything was now in place with ‘The Responsibility to

Protect’ for the El-lite and their pathetic media to dub US/UK

attacks and coups in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Syria, as the

‘Arab Spring’ and demand regime-change in the very

countries named in September 2000 by the Zionist Project

for the New American Century. This ‘Arab Spring’ was

supposed to be Arab people seizing their freedom but (a)

you can never be free while your mind is controlled by

religion, and (b) it was never about freedom at all. I

remember sitting in a hotel room after speaking in Kiev,

Ukraine in 2011 and watching the live coverage of

thousands celebrating in Cairo over the resignation of

President Hosni Mubarak after the Soros-driven protests that

brought him down. But what followed was not freedom, only

a vicious military junta government led by Abdel Fattah el-

Sisi. Egypt is second only to neighbouring Israel for US

military funding and together they take something like

three-quarters of the US foreign military support budget.

When the US says jump, Sisi asks ‘How high?’ Yep, the ‘Arab

Spring’ worked out really well – just not for Arabs. This is

how

the

‘people’s

revolution’

scam

works:

F igure 4 7 8 : The Kagans could be a reality TV show except that it

would be far

too violent.

(1) Train agitators in the techniques of overthrowing

governments through civil unrest (Egypt and so many

others) or train, fund and arm terrorists and mercenaries

to do so through what you term ‘civil war’ (Libya, Syria

etc.).

(2) Employ propaganda to encourage others to ‘join the

fight’ who have no idea who the real masters are, by

demonising the leader and regime you want to bring

down. The global mainstream media will always be

frothing at the mouth to do so – see bin Laden, Saddam,

Gaddafi, Assad and Putin.

(3) Your proxy army of ‘rebels’ begin to attack government

targets – often with civilian casualties, or riot or amass in

large numbers in iconic places such as squares or outside

the government building. When the government responds

with military and police you claim the target leader is

oppressing his own people or when violent exchanges are

involved with armed ‘rebels’ that he is ‘killing his own

people’.

(4) Tell the world that the innocent are being killed and

the ‘international community’ (i.e. Britain, America and

NATO) must intervene to protect civilians from violence by

bombing them mercilessly from the sky as happened in



Libya, Syria and a list of other locations worldwide.

Thomas Paine, the English-American political activist and

philosopher, said: ‘The greatest tyrannies are always

perpetuated in the name of the noblest causes.’

This is the sequence that can be witnessed over and over

again and don’t take my word that this is all coldly planned.

The policy was revealed in a US military document entitled

‘US Special Forces Unconventional Warfare Strategy’

published on November 30th, 2010, just one month before

the ‘Arab Spring’ began in Tunisia. The document begins:

The intent of US UW [Unconventional Warfare] efforts is to

exploit a hostile power’s political, military, economic, and

psychological vulnerabilities by developing and sustaining

resistance forces to accomplish US strategic objectives ...

For the foreseeable future, US forces will predominantly

engage in irregular warfare (IW) operations.

F igure 4 7 9 : The West’s version of protecting civilians from violence.

The document goes on to say the strategy requires that

target-state population perceptions are first ‘groomed’ into

accepting an armed insurrection, using ‘propaganda and

political and psychological efforts to discredit the

government’... creating local and national ‘agitation’...

helping to organise ‘boycotts, strikes and other efforts to

suggest public discontent’... before beginning the

‘infiltration of foreign organizers and advisors and foreign

propaganda, material, money, weapons and equipment’.

Should there be retaliation by the target government, the

document continues, the resistance can exploit the negative

consequences to garner more sympathy and support from

the population by emphasising the sacrifices and hardship

the resistance is enduring on behalf of ‘the people’. This is

what happened in Libya when a country with the highest

per-capita income in Africa with free education, healthcare

and even electricity was transformed into a Stone Age

bloodbath of ongoing violence between warring tribes that

had been prevented from killing each other by Colonel

Gaddafi. Libya is now a safe haven for ISIS and other

extremist crazies – as planned – and a major source of the

vast influx of migrants into Europe (Fig 479). British-based

Libyan fighters were allowed to move freely between the UK

and Libya even though they were members of terrorist

networks like the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group which was

aligned with al-Qaeda and designated a foreign terrorist

organisation in 2004. Former British MI5 agent David

Shayler said that MI6 collaborated with the Libyan Islamic

Fighting Group in a 1996 assassination attempt on Gaddafi.

Many of these anti-Gaddafi operatives trained by the British

SAS came from Manchester in the north of England and

called themselves the ‘Manchester fighters’. One of them

said that three quarters of the anti-Gaddafi ‘rebels’ at the

start of the conflict in 2011were from Manchester, with

others from London, Sheffield and countries such as China

and Japan. Among them was Ramadan Abedi, an airport

security guard, who left England as an asset of MI6 to fight

against Gaddafi with British support and was allowed to

come and go at will. Five years later his son, Salman Abedi,

would return from Libya to Manchester where he was named

as the suicide bomber that killed 22 people and injured 119,

many of them children, as they left a performance by singer

Ariana Grande at the Manchester Arena. Theresa May, the

British Prime Minister, condemned the attack and ordered

troops on the streets to protect the public. The Home

Secretary responsible for border control in the David

Cameron government when Salman Abedi’s father and

other British terrorists were freely allowed to move between

the UK and Libya was ... Theresa May. The hypocrisy is

stunning. Former MI5 agent David Shayler has said that

father Ramadan Abedi worked for MI6 under the code-name

‘Tunworth’ and was given £ 40,000 for the assassination

attempt on Gaddafi in 1996. His son, Salman Abedi, was yet

another ‘known to the security agencies’ to be named as a

terrorist killer. UK ‘counter terrorism’ agencies were warned

at least five times about the danger posed by Abedi,

including his stated willingness to be a suicide bomber, but

did nothing. MI5 was warned by the FBI months before the

attack that Abedi was part of a North African Islamic State

cell in the north west of England which was planning

attacks, but did nothing. Abedi was reported to have been

on a US terrorist watch list in 2016 and yet was allowed in

the run up to the Manchester attack to travel unquestioned

between Libya, Syria, Turkey and Britain despite visiting a

convicted Libyan jihadist jailed in Liverpool near Manchester

in the months before the attack. Terrorists named for the

London Bridge attacks which killed eight people shortly after

Manchester continued the theme. Police, MI5 and the UK

border authority were reported to have missed at least 18

opportunities to investigate and question those involved.

One of them, Rachid Redouane, was another who fought in

Libya during the US-UK-NATO coup against Gaddafi with a

unit trained by Qatar (with UK/US ‘liaison’ officers) known as

Liwa al Ummah which moved on to Syria after Libya had

been devastated and merged with the ‘Free Syrian Army’ –

you know, the US/UK/NATO-supported ‘moderate rebels’ in

Syria that we were told so much about.

In their own words US Defense Intelligence Agency

(DIA) documents, dated August 12th, 2012, confirmed the

terrorist-supporting policy against Syria when they were

made public thanks to a lawsuit instigated by government-

challenging Judicial Watch. Documents confirm that Western

governments (including the US, Britain, France and Israel),

Turkey and Gulf States (Saudi Arabia, Qatar and UAE) were

‘supporting powers’ to terrorist groups that became ISIS in

an effort to remove President Assad. They knew that this

‘proxy war’ was likely to lead to a ‘Salafist [ISIS] Principality’

in Syria:

... there is the possibility of establishing a declared or

undeclared Salafist Principality in eastern Syria, and this is

exactly what the supporting powers to the opposition

want, in order to isolate the Syrian regime, which is

considered the strategic depth of the Shia expansion (Iraq

and Iran).

Sunni and Shia Muslims disagree on the line of succession

from the Prophet Muhammad and so there has been conflict

between them for around 1,400 years. I know, but this is

Planet Earth. The centre of Shia Islam is Iran while ISIS and

Gulf States are Sunni dominated. Those DIA documents

should have been dynamite for the media, but with a few

exceptions they weren’t. Shhhh! Charles Shoebridge, a

former

British

Army

and

Metropolitan

Police

counterterrorism intelligence officer, said:

Throughout the early years of the Syria crisis, the US and

UK governments, and almost universally the West’s

mainstream media, promoted Syria’s rebels as moderate,

liberal, secular, democratic, and therefore deserving of

the West’s support. Given that these documents wholly

undermine this assessment, it’s significant that the West’s

media has now, despite their immense significance,

almost entirely ignored them.

The Pentagon-funded Rand Corporation proposed a similar

policy in a 2008 US Army-sponsored report Unfolding the

Future of the Long War. The proposed plan was to divide and

rule the Arab world by setting Sunni (Saudi Arabia) in

conflict with Shia (Iran) and the US supporting with weapons

and cash the very terrorist groups they were supposed to be

fighting. The evidence is clear from so many sources that

ISIS was purposely-created by the US, UK and other Western

governments in league with Turkey and the Gulf States.

Israel was right at the centre of this, too, as always, and so

although you would expect ISIS to head straight there to

fight the ‘infidels’ they kill Muslims instead and destroy

mosques. I would not rule out Israeli targets being hit at

some point to justify direct Israel involvement in the war,

but the pattern of Muslims killing Muslims is there for all to

see. Former Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Ya’alon said in

2017 that on one occasion when Isis-affiliated fighters

exchanged fire with Israeli troops in the occupied Syrian

Golan Heights, ISIS had apologised. They were beheading

Muslims and apologising to Israel? ISIS is a Muslim group??

No, it is a Saudi Dönmeh Wahhabi group. During Ya’alon’s

period as Defence Minister in 2013 Israel began to provide

money, food, fuel and medical supplies to anti-Assad

‘rebels’ (terrorists) according to ‘rebels’ interviewed by the

Wall Street Journal. This is still ongoing today. What

happened in Syria was a repeat of the technique used in

Libya when West-supported terrorists promoted as

‘moderate rebels’ were used to remove Gaddafi. Now here is

a vital point to emphasise. Bush (Republican) and Blair

(Labour Party) fronted up the lies to sell the invasion of Iraq,

but by the time America, Britain, France and NATO were

bombing the innocent in Libya to save them from violence in

2011 the political leaders in the US and UK were from the

‘other sides’ with ‘Democrats’ Barack Obama and Secretary

of State Hillary Clinton teaming up with David Cameron, the

Conservative Party Prime Minister. ‘Outsider’ Trump then

comes in and kicks off about Iran and North Korea which are

two others on the original hit-list (Figs 480, 481, 482 and

483). ‘Different’ leaders and ‘different’ parties, but the same



PNAC list of countries continued to be targeted. This is how

it works in the one-party state with the Hidden Hand

directing policy whoever is officially in power. By the time

Gaddafi was gone in Libya the same technique was

underway in Syria and many of the ‘Libyan rebels’ (terrorists

and mercenaries) then headed to Syria to do the same to

Assad, thanks to weapons and funding from the US, UK and

their satellite states in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia, Qatar

and the United Arab Emirates. Weapons used against

Gaddafi were also transferred from Libya to ‘rebels’ in Syria.

An email released by WikiLeaks sent by Clinton’s State

Department



in

2012

said:

F igure 4 8 0 : Saddam’s ‘weapons of mass destruction’ was the lie

America and

Britain used to tick-off Iraq on the Neocon list.





F igure 4 8 1 : Change of leaders in the US and UK, but the same list

goes on

being followed – this time Libya.

F igure 4 8 2 : All long-planned ... Syria was next.



F igure 4 8 3 : Trump came to office and immediately focused on

North Korea,

Iran and China – or his military handlers did.

Washington should start by expressing its willingness to

work with regional allies like Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and

Qatar to organize, train and arm Syrian rebel forces. The

announcement of such a decision would, by itself, likely

cause substantial defections from the Syrian military.

Then, using territory in Turkey and possibly Jordan, US

diplomats and Pentagon officials can start strengthening

the opposition ... Arming the Syrian rebels and using

Western air power to ground Syrian helicopters and

airplanes is a low-cost high payoff approach.

F igure 4 8 4 : Ahhhh .... it all makes sense now.

Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar have since played central

roles in funding and arming what was now called ISIS or

Islamic State (see al-Qaeda, Mujahedeen etc.) and in the

case of Turkey and Jordan allowing ISIS and ‘rebel’ forces to

cross the border into Syria. Still more confirmation that ISIS

is a creation of the West and its Gulf State satellites came

with the admission by Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber al-Thani,

Qatar’s prime minister and foreign minister until 2013, that

the United States and Gulf allies had been supporting

Islamic terrorists in Syria (Fig 484). He told PBS television

interviewer Charlie Rose in June 2017 that the CIA was

running training centres in Jordan and Turkey to produce

terrorist fighters to overthrow Assad. Documents leaked by

NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden revealed that up to a

billion dollars a year was being spent training and arming

this proxy US army. Hillary Clinton lied under oath when she

denied knowledge of weapons shipments to al-Qaeda and

Islamic State from Libya via Turkey and she knew that the

US was arming anti-Gaddafi ‘rebels’ in Libya. Of course she

did – she was doing it. Charges against American arms

dealer Marc Turi for running weapons to Libyan ‘rebels’ were

suddenly dropped by the US Department of Justice in 2016

when the court case threatened to reveal the involvement

of Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and the CIA in doing what

Turi was accused of doing. US/UK funding and arming of

ISIS/Islamic State (IS) against Assad and Syria has been

hidden behind terms such as ‘moderate rebels’, but

weapons supplied to ‘moderate rebels’ (terrorists can be

‘moderate’, apparently) ended up with ISIS, as the

Americans and British knew they would. Military vehicles

and state-of-the-art weapons were ‘left behind’ by the

Americans in Iraq for ISIS to inherit and a study by the

London-based organisation Action on Armed Violence found

that of the 1.45 million guns supplied by the US to

Afghanistan and Iraq between 2001 and 2015 only three

percent are accounted for.

Peter Ford, a former British ambassador to Syria, has said

that the United States is ‘effectively siding with a branch of

al-Qaeda’ to overthrow the Syrian government. He said the

US had an ‘obsession with getting rid of Assad and the

secular government in Syria’ at the loss of ‘all moral and

practical competence’. This ‘obsession’ is because Syria is

on the Zionist Neocon regime-change list and anything goes

to achieve that. At the time of writing the Neocon-instigated

Syrian conflict has cost the lives of more than 400,000

people since 2011 (others say that’s an underestimate) with

another 5.5 million fleeing the country and 6.3 million

internally displaced, according to UN figures. To describe

those responsible as psychopaths is not even nearly

sufficient. They represent pure, undiluted evil and the

extremes of the Archontic distortion. Saudi Arabia is the

direct creator of ISIS or Islamic State as a Western proxy

army and so ISIS behaves the same way as the Saudis with

its violent imposition of Wahhabism or Salafism through

beheading and mass murder (Fig 485). The only difference

is that Islamic State is promoted as a terrorist ‘enemy’ by

the West, but Saudi Arabia is an ally to be armed to the

teeth for their human carnage in Yemen and manipulated

onto UN human rights and women’s rights bodies while the

Saudi fraudulent ‘royals’ daily destroy the most basic rights

for their religiously-cowed population. Activists campaigning



for human rights are tortured to elicit forced confessions

which are then used to behead them. They have even done

this to disabled people. There is no condemnation from the

‘moral West’ while Saudi Arabia does the bidding of the

United States, United Kingdom, Israel, France and NATO (Fig

486).



F igure 4 8 5 : They act the same because they are the same.

F igure 4 8 6 : Not even the fanatic killers and fodder who ‘fight for

ISIS’ know

this fact when just a little research would show them everything they

need to

know.

The defector prince Saudi Prince Khalid Bin Farhan

al-Saud defected from the family in 2013 because of their

lies and corruption and now lives in Germany. He has

confirmed that the US and Israel control the Saudi ‘royals’

and posted information that he said came from inside the

family about US and Israeli ‘conditions’ for ‘helping’ current

Saudi king, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, to succeed his

father in 2015. Two other ‘heir apparents’ higher up the

pecking order died in 2011 and 2012. Farhan al-Saud, the

defector prince, said that in return for this ‘help’ Salman had

to agree to ‘absolute obedience’ to the US and Israel, work

to settle all Gaza Palestinians in north Sinai (to be paid for

by the Saudis and UAE), destroy Palestinian group Hamas

and secure ownership of Sanafir Island from Egypt. The

latter was to change the Gulf of Aqaba from Egyptian

territorial waters to international waters for the benefit of

Israeli shipping operating out of the port of Eilat. In June

2017 Egypt president and US puppet Abdul Fattah al-Sisi

transferred ownership of Sanafir Island and neighbouring

Tiran island to Saudi Arabia despite public protests. The

islands sit at the entrance to the Gulf of Aqaba which allows

Israeli shipping access to the Red Sea. This is what really

goes on behind the headlines and fake narratives. These

Israel-Saudi connections further explain why Israel arse-

lickers like Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham also

pimp for Saudi Arabia. With the US Deep State, Israel, UK

and Saudi Arabia working as one unit it is worth people

reflecting again on what happened on 9/11 from this

perspective when there was such a Saudi Arabian

connection to those attacks. The real power in Saudi is King

Salman’s appointed successor, the US-puppet Prince

Mohammad bin Salman who has been given control of the

military, oil and the economy, entertainment, business and

in effect foreign affairs. They now call him Mr Everything.

Britain sells more arms to Saudi Arabia than it does to any

other country because they are working to the same ends.

Home Secretary Amber Rudd justified the Saudi killing of

Yemeni children with British weapons as ‘good for British

industry’ while condemning the Manchester bombing as ‘a

barbaric attack deliberately targeting some of the most

vulnerable in our society – young people and children.’ The

UK Guardian quoted a Home Office spokesman at the same

time as saying that a British government investigation into

the financing of terror groups operating in Britain with

special focus on Saudi Arabia had not been completed and

published because the contents were ‘very sensitive’. I bet

they bloody are. The government later blocked publication

for ‘security reasons’ (the security of Saudi Arabia and its

connections to terrorism). During Trump’s visit to Saudi

Arabia in May 2017 an ‘Arab NATO’ was launched involving

the United States and nations in the Persian Gulf agreeing to

collaborate to stop the flow of terrorist financing. No

collaboration was necessary – all these nations had to do to

stop the financing of terrorism was to stop financing

terrorism. The initiative will be jointly chaired by the US and

Saudi Arabia, the two biggest funders of terrorism on the

planet. The terrorists and terror-supporting Saudi Arabia,

Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and the United Arab Emirates

(UAE) came together to form the Terrorist Financing

Targeting Center. This is to ensure the better financing of

terrorists, presumably. The ‘anti-terrorist’ UAE was exposed

by Associated Press for running ‘black sites’ in Yemen where

prisoners are abused and tortured with US personnel

involved in at least some of them. The joke plumbed still

new depths when in June 2017, Saudi Arabia, the UAE,

Bahrain and Egypt cut diplomatic ties and all land sea and

air contacts with Qatar over claims that it was supporting

terrorism and interfering in their internal affairs. The real

reason was that Qatar did not support a hardline against

Iran and because from the US/UK perspective the dispute

adds to the fracturing of the Muslim world demanded by

Israel which, of course, supported the Saudi action against

Qatar. Given what the Saudi defector prince said about

Saudi Arabia’s King Salman being completely controlled by

the US and Israel this targeting of Qatar must have

originated with them. They’ll unseat the Saudi royals

eventually, too, when it suits them. Trump condemned Qatar

while saying not a word about the rest of them, and the

sight of Saudi Arabia and the UAE attacking Qatar for

funding terrorism takes us deep into the Twilight Zone.

Veteran real journalist John Pilger said of ISIS:

They are not only the progeny; they are the fully grown-

up, manic, adolescent creature belonging to Paris, London

and the United States. Without the support of these three

countries, without the arms that have been given to ISIS –

either they have been given directly to Jabhat al-Nusra

and have gone to ISIS; or they have gone the other way;

or they have gone to the Wahhabists in Saudi Arabia or in

Qatar – but the French, the British, the Americans and the

Turks have all supplied those that have kept ISIS going.

You know, if David Cameron had won his Commons vote a

couple of years ago [to bomb the Assad government

directly], ISIS would now be in charge in Syria ... The

Middle East’s most multi-ethnic, multicultural state, would

be finished, and these fanatics would be in charge, and

that would be thanks entirely to Western actions.

These were the very actions demanded in September

2000 by the Zionist Project for the New American Century.

Another question: Why do ‘ISIS’ propaganda videos

including beheadings come into public circulation through

fronts for Israeli Intelligence and why are ISIS claims of

responsibility for terror attacks circulated through the same

source? The most prominent of these Israeli organisations is

SITE (Search For International Terrorist Entities) Intelligence

Group in Bethesda, Maryland, run by Israeli zealot Rita Katz,

which I have exposed in other books (Fig 487). How come

‘ISIS’ videos reach the public and media through Katz?

American journalist and researcher Christopher Bollyn has

established that SITE’s ‘ISIS’ videos are supplied by

Jihadology.net. This is a website operated by Aaron Yosef Zelin, a Zionist connected to Zionist think tanks, including

the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Bollyn points

out that Zelin attends Israeli intelligence events, like the

International Institute for CounterTerrorism conference in

Herzliya, Israel, which was addressed by ultra-Zionist

Michael Chertoff, the US Assistant Attorney General at the

time of 9/11 when crucial evidence was destroyed. Chertoff

was also head of Homeland Security, an agency established

because of the September 11th attacks. Videos that appear

to come from ISIS and earlier from ‘Bin Laden’ are so easy

to fake with modern technology to make them do or say

anything. Put the words ‘Nothing is real: How German

scientists control Putin’s face’ into YouTube and you will see

what I mean. There is also ‘Synthesizing Obama: Learning

Lip Sync From Audio’. These examples are not even close to

the state of the art available to the Intelligence agencies

which operate with technology far beyond anything you are

allowed to see in the public arena. A team at the University

of Washington has developed algorithms that can

realistically lip-sync audio and video to make anyone appear

to say anything and again this is only what you are allowed

to see. Question everything especially ‘terrorist’ videos

circulated by SHITE, sorry SITE. I must learn to type. We

should also not underestimate for a second the central role

of Israel and Britain in this frenzy of calculated global

slaughter. Britain has been on the case since the days of

violent colonisation – the ‘Great’ British Empire – and as a

major centre for the unseen levels of the Web it is always in

the frontline where exploitation, war and slaughter is being

hatched. Britain tries to hide this by playing the little boy to

America’s Big Daddy, but while it may be like that in the

arena of politicians and governments it is a very different

relationship in the unseen. Roland Dumas, a former French



Minister for Foreign Affairs, said on French television:

F igure 4 8 7 : ISIS – such a blatant scam. SITE made ‘Bin Laden’

videos public

and now does the same with ISIS.

I’m going to tell you something. I was in England two

years before the violence in Syria on other business. I met

with top British officials, who confessed to me that they

were preparing something in Syria. This was in Britain, not

in America. Britain was organising an invasion of rebels

into Syria. They even asked me, although I was no longer

minister for foreign affairs, if I would like to participate.

Naturally, I refused ... This operation goes way back. It

was prepared, preconceived and planned ...

Official documents reveal that British and American

governments planned something very similar in 1957 when

Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and President Dwight

Eisenhower agreed a plan by the CIA and MI6 to stage fake

attacks to provide the excuse for an invasion by Syria’s pro-

Western neighbours Iraq and Jordan and to ‘eliminate’

leading figures in the Damascus government. A Guardian

article described the plan:

The report said that once the necessary degree of fear

had been created, frontier incidents and border clashes

would be staged to provide a pretext for Iraqi and

Jordanian military intervention. Syria had to be ‘made to

appear as the sponsor of plots, sabotage and violence

directed against neighbouring governments’, the report

says. ‘CIA and SIS [MI6] should use their capabilities in

both the psychological and action fields to augment

tension.’ That meant operations in Jordan, Iraq, and

Lebanon, taking the form of ‘sabotage, national

conspiracies and various strong-arm activities’ to be

blamed on Damascus’.

The plan called for funding of a ‘Free Syria Committee’,

and the arming of ‘political factions with paramilitary or

other actionist capabilities’ within Syria. The CIA and MI6

would instigate internal uprisings, for instance by the

Druze in the south, help to free political prisoners held in

the Mezze prison, and stir up the Muslim Brotherhood in

Damascus.

Nothing changes then.

Israel, war and terror Former French minister

Dumas also stressed in his television interview how it was

important to know that in the region the Assad Syrian

government has a very anti-Israeli stance. ‘Consequently ...

and I have this from the former Israeli prime minister who

told me “we’ll try to get on with our neighbours but those

who don’t agree with us will be destroyed.”’ The same

theme was confirmed in a Hillary Clinton State Department

email:

It is the strategic relationship between Iran and the

regime of Bashar Assad in Syria that makes it possible for

Iran to undermine Israel’s security – not through a direct

attack, which in the thirty years of hostility between Iran

and Israel has never occurred, but through its proxies in

Lebanon, like Hezbollah, that are sustained, armed and

trained by Iran via Syria. The end of the Assad regime

would end this dangerous alliance. Israel’s leadership

understands well why defeating Assad is now in its

interests.

US desire for a ‘Salafist Principality’ in Syria supports the

long-term plan by Israel to ‘Balkanise’ Syria and the Middle

East, in the way that the former Yugoslavia was broken up

into smaller parts, and allow for Israel domination of the

region. This is the century-old project for a ‘Greater Israel’

(Revisionist Zionism’s biblical Eretz Yisrael) from the River

Nile in Egypt to the River Euphrates in Iraq (Fig 488). Kurdish

people fighting ISIS want to secure part of Syria and should

Turkey and the United States control Syrian land when the

fighting ends (and that’s the plan) you can bet they won’t

be giving it back to the government in Damascus. Kurdish

official Hediya Yousef told the UK Observer of their intent to

annex the Syrian city of Raqqa and land in northern Syria to



the Mediterranean Sea with support from the United States.

Part of this Greater Israel plan is to replace the Al-Aqsa

Mosque on Temple Mount in Jerusalem with a rebuilt

‘Solomon’s Temple’ which Jews believe stood on the spot a

thousand years ago. Watch for events with regard to Temple

Mount – Haram esh-Sharif to Muslims – and you will see

where they are meant to lead. Even a US State Department

report, Country Reports on Terrorism 2016, said that

Palestinians were being pushed into violence by the actions

of the Israeli regime and violence by Jewish extremists or

‘settlers’

illegally

occupying

Palestinian

land:

F igure 4 8 8 : The long-term plan to impose a Greater Israel explains

so much

about events in the Middle East.

A lack of hope in achieving Palestinian statehood, Israeli

settlement construction in the West Bank, settler violence

against Palestinians in the West Bank, the perception that

the Israeli government was changing the status quo on

the Haram Al Sharif/Temple Mount, and IDF [Israel

Defense Forces] tactics that the Palestinians considered

overly aggressive [are pushing Arabs to resort to violent

extremism] ... extremist Israelis, including settlers,

continued to conduct acts of violence as well as ‘price tag’

attacks.

‘Price tag’ refers to violence by Jewish fundamentalists in

retaliation to what they claim to be anti-illegal settlement

activities. Israel is up to its neck in terrorism both against

Palestinians and covertly elsewhere. Violence for the Israeli

regime is the answer to everything and the State of Israel

was bombed into existence by Zionist terror groups involved

in a string of attacks including the bombing of the King

David Hotel in Jerusalem in 1946 by the Irgun group and a

massacre in the Arab village of Deir Yassin in 1948 as

Palestinians were terrorised into fleeing their own country.

Nearly a hundred men, women and children were killed in

those two attacks alone and yet Israel claims to be the

paradigm of virtue in which butter wouldn’t melt. It isn’t.

Israel is a state founded by and sustained by terrorism

through merciless groups like Irgun and Lehi (also the Stern

gang) and continues today with the Israel Defence Forces

(IDF) and the global octopus that is its military intelligence

arm, Mossad. This has to be so given that Revisionist Zionist

ideology (Sabbatean Frankism) is violent to its core. The

Lehi Zionist terror group even explored at one point an

alliance with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Yes, really. But

then fascism is Revisionist Zionism’s spiritual home. Israeli

Prime Ministers Yitzhak Shamir and Menachem Begin were

leaders of Lehi and Irgun and subsequently had the nerve to

condemn terrorism. Albert Einstein and other prominent

Jews said in that 1948 letter to The New York Times that

even Jews who rejected Revisionist Zionism were targeted

by these terrorists and this still continues today:

... [Irgun] and Stern groups inaugurated a reign of terror in

the Palestine Jewish community. Teachers were beaten up

for speaking against them, adults were shot for not letting

their children join them. By gangster methods, beatings,

window smashing, and widespread robberies, the

terrorists intimidated the population and exacted a heavy

tribute.

Journalist Jonathan Cook, based in Nazareth, Israel, wrote

an acclaimed book, Israel and the Clash of Civilisations: Iraq,

Iran and the Plan to Remake the Middle East in which he laid

out the plan by Israel to ‘unleash chaos across much of the

region, destabilising key enemy states ... Iran, Iraq, Syria

and Lebanon’ with the intent of Balkanising the Middle East.

A decade later the result of that policy is there to see. Cook

highlighted the connection between Israel and the Neocons

in the United States and he was right about that, too. The

agendas of Israel and the Neocons are the same because

they are the same. Cook wrote an article in 2017 headed

‘Syria is the dam against more bloody chaos’:

My book was published when efforts by Israel and the

neocons to move the Balkanisation campaign forward into

Iran, Syria and Lebanon were stumbling, and before it was

clear that other actors, such as ISIS, would emerge out of

the mayhem. But I predicted – correctly – that Israel and

the neocons would continue to push for more

destabilisation, targeting Syria next, with disastrous

consequences.

Today, Israel’s vision of the region is shared by other key

actors, including Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, and Turkey.

The current arena for destabilisation, as I warned, is Syria.

But if successful, the Balkanisation process will

undoubtedly move on and intensify against Lebanon and

Iran.

And so it will – the very fact that Lebanon and Iran are on

the original Neocon hit-list of September 2000 is

confirmation of that. The Neocons are desperate for a war

with Iran. US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson made it clear



in June 2017 that they planned a repetition of Libya and

Syria in Iran when he told the House Foreign Affairs

Committee that their Iran policy was ‘to push back on this

hegemony, contain their ability to develop obviously nuclear

weapons, and to work toward support of those elements

inside of Iran that would lead to a peaceful transition of that

government’. Arm, fund and train ‘rebels’ ... you know the

rest. I have no support for an Iranian regime so founded on

religious programming, but look at Iran’s history of starting

wars compared with the United States which has been

almost permanently at war since 1776. All this war crime,

but not one of those responsible has appeared before the

International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague,

Netherlands, which prosecutes individuals for international

crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war

crimes. Or, rather, it doesn’t. If that were the case both

Bushes, Blair, Obama, Cameron, Hollande, Kissinger,

Cheney, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz, etc. etc., and the fake royals

of Arabia and the Gulf would all be safely secured behind

bars. Instead they indict people like Serbia’s Slobodan

Miloš ević and those from Africa and South America. Anyone

from the mass-killing West is nowhere to be seen. The ICC is

a farce, an embarrassment and a tool of the very people

that it should be prosecuting (Fig 489. Tony Blair was not

arrested after playing a crucial role in the mass murder of

Iraqis based on a lie and turning the Middle East asunder

but instead he was appointed Middle East ‘peace envoy’ to

represent the ‘quartet’ of the US, EU, UN and Russia (while

really representing Israel).

F igure 4 8 9 : The International Criminal Court is a tool of the West

and to claim

otherwise is an insult to the intelligence.

Russian spanner Assad and the Syrian army held on

much longer than expected against the ISIS, al-Qaeda,

‘moderate rebel’ onslaught that was armed, funded and

supplied by the US and Britain through Gulf states like Saudi

Arabia, the UAE and Qatar. America was supposed to be out

there with its air force ‘fighting terrorism’, but the ISIS

advance was incessant and unchecked towards Assad’s

stronghold in the capital Damascus. Somehow with all that

firepower in the air the US couldn’t stop them. What could

have been happening? Were these desert fighters just so

incredibly good and unbeatable? Well, I guess dropping

leaflets 45 minutes before a US bombing raid to tell them

what was coming didn’t help the cause. With every new

village, town and city taken by ISIS came more beheadings,

mass murder and abuse of women and children. The

Archontic Reptilian psychopaths in the West could not care

less any more than the Archontic ISIS psychopaths that were

doing it. But then came the game-changer. Russia’s

President Putin could see that Assad was certain to fall if

nothing was done and the Russian naval base was also

potentially under threat in the Syrian Mediterranean port of

Tartus. Assad welcomed the offer of Russian air support and

suddenly – hey presto – ISIS and their allies began to retreat

in the face of someone actually trying to make them do so

(Fig 490). They were removed from the major city of Aleppo

amid hysterical attacks by the mainstream media and

politicians that Assad and Russia were killing the innocent.

When the US bombarded Raqqa in Syria and Mosul in Iraq

they were reported to be liberating those cities when

Airwars, a UK-based monitoring group, said that at least 744

civilians were killed by US airstrikes in Iraq and Syria in June

2017 alone and The Independent in the UK revealed

intelligence reports that put the civilian death toll in Mosul

at more than 40,000. But still Russia and Syria were

portrayed as civilian killers and the US/UK coalition as

liberators. How the mainstream media sleep at night is

beyond me, but not them, and progressives were on the

street to order (Fig 491). An Iraqi general in the ‘US

coalition’ quoted by Middle East Eye said that they were

ordered to kill everyone in Mosul included civilians and

children – ‘anything or anyone that moved’. He said: ‘We

killed them all, Daesh [ISIS], men, women and children. We

killed everyone.’ Paulo Sergio Pinheiro, chairman of the UN

Commission of Inquiry into the Syrian conflict, spoke of the

‘staggering’ loss of civilian lives in Raqqa from US ‘coalition’

air bombardment in support of Kurdish militia on the ground

(many of them as crazy as any of the others) while footage

emerged of ISIS maniacs driving in convoy out of Raqqa

without any resistance from the same US ‘coalition’. The

American military is a death and destruction machine and

wherever it and its UK/NATO allies go dead civilians follow

while their proxy terrorist armies often get away and

regroup; but remember that the US military is controlled by

Satanists literally representing a Death Cult and then the

mass targeting of civilians takes on a new meaning. To these

satanic psychopaths mass murder in the name of war and

‘liberation’ are blood and fire death rituals feeding their

masters in the unseen and holding down the collective

frequency – thus ‘kill everything and anyone that moves’.

The US ‘coalition’, which as always includes Britain, has



used white phosphorous weapons in Raqqa and Mosul which

burns through to the bone causing horrendous injuries.

These are banned for use in civilian areas but these

psychopaths couldn’t care less. They have used white

phosphorous in Vietnam, Fallujah – see Mad Dog – and in

Iraq and Syria in current conflicts while Israel has dropped

this abomination on civilians in the concentration camp that

is Gaza (Fig 492). Putin has been accused of propping up the





demonised Assad, but he explained his reason for

intervening:

F igure 4 9 0 : No, they were not trying because ISIS is a US/UK

Western creation

to remove Assad and seize control of Syria.

F igure 4 9 1 : More anti-System System-servers.

F igure 4 9 2 : Deadly and devastating white phosphorous used

against civilians

by the United States ‘coalition’ and Israel.

It’s not President Assad whom we are protecting; we are

protecting the Syrian statehood. We don’t want their

interior to be a situation similar to that in Libya, or that in

Somalia, or in Afghanistan – in Afghanistan NATO has been

present for many years, but the situation is not changing

for the better.

We want to preserve the Syrian statehood. On the basis of

resolving this fundamental issue we would like them to

move towards settling the Syrian issue through political

means. Yes, probably everyone there is to blame for

something, but let’s not forget that were it not for active

interference from outside, this civil war probably would

not have broken out.

This is more statesmanlike in two paragraphs than

American administrations have shown collectively in more

than 50 years. The Syria-Russia purge of ISIS should have

been welcomed by the US, UK and the West in general if

they really cared about ‘fighting terrorism’, but they don’t.

Why would they when they created the terrorism? Michael

Fallon, the numbskull UK Defence Secretary (a terrifying

thought), was one who vehemently condemned Assad and

his Russian support but in 2012 he was shaking Assad’s

hand in Damascus at a party to celebrate the president’s re-

election. Actions change when the agenda changes to

another phase because people like Fallon are just gofers

who do whatever they are told. The media should just

record one video of Fallon saying ‘I agree with the

Americans’ and they can then play that as his response to

everything ongoing. To think that at a time when the world

needs intelligent statesmen of integrity and wisdom Michael

Fallon was made UK Defence Secretary, buffoon main-

chancer Boris Johnson became Foreign Secretary, Donald

Trump was elected President of the United States and the

US military is headed by a bloke called ‘Mad Dog’.

Russia’s spanner was now in the Western works and we

reached the point where even the American government

was saying for the first time that a settlement in Syria was

not necessarily dependent on Assad stepping down. Almost

immediately afterwards Assad was accused of a sarin gas

attack on ‘his own people’ in 2017 based on no evidence

and when that is the last thing that Assad would do given

that he and Russia were winning the war and pushing the

US into the background. Why would Assad give America the

ammunition against him that they so wanted? Khan

Shaykhun, where the attack is said to have happened, is

described as a ‘ground zero’ for Islamic jihadists. The West

had tried to play the Assad chemical attack card in 2013

soon after Obama said that such an attack on civilians

would be the ‘red line’ that would trigger US strikes on

Syrian government targets, but veteran US investigative

journalist Seymour Hersh reported that the Obama

Administration had lied about Assad’s involvement in search

of an excuse to invade Syria. Hersh wrote that an

agreement had been made in 2012 between the Obama

Administration (controlled by Sabbatean Frankism) and the

leaders of Turkey (ditto), Saudi Arabia (ditto), and Qatar

(ditto), to instigate a sarin attack and say that Assad was to

blame: ‘By the terms of the agreement, funding came from

Turkey, as well as Saudi Arabia and Qatar; the CIA, with the

support of MI6, was responsible for getting arms from

Gaddafi’s arsenals into Syria.’ Following the agreement

exposed by Seymour Hersh, the London Mail Online website

ran a story in January 2013 about leaked emails describing

plans for a chemical weapon sanctioned by Washington to

be delivered to a ‘rebel’ stronghold in Syria. The story was

quickly removed from the website, but I was sent a screen

grab (Fig 493). We are looking at a classic Problem-Reaction-

Solution confirmed by details in allegedly hacked emails

from the British and Dubai-based defence contractor Britam

Defence which revealed a plan ‘approved by Washington’

and organised through the American client state of Qatar to

transport a chemical weapon (CW) to Syria that was clearly

intended to be a PRS to remove Assad. Obama had said that

a chemical attack by Assad would be the ‘red line’ that

would mean military intervention and the on-the-team

French President Francois Hollande followed suit. Hollande

agreed that the use of chemical weapons would be ‘a

legitimate reason for direct intervention’. Israel naturally

said something similar as you would expect. The emails



were made public by a German hacker and were alleged to

be correspondence between David Goulding, the Britam

Defence Business Development Director, and Philip

Doughty, the company’s founder:

F igure 4 9 3 : Mail Online story that was quickly removed.

Phil

We’ve got a new offer. It’s about Syria again. Qataris

propose an attractive deal and swear that the idea is

approved by Washington. We’ll have to deliver a CW to

Homs, a Soviet origin g-shell from Libya similar to those

that Assad should have. They want us to deploy our

Ukrainian personnel that should speak Russian and make

a video record.

Frankly, I don’t think it’s a good idea but the sums

proposed are enormous. Your opinion?

Kind regards

David

The Qatari Emir at the time, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al

Thani, is a fake royal US puppet and the Qatar regime is a

conduit for funding and arming terrorist ‘rebels’ in Syria and

Libya. The same is the case with the fake royals running the

United Arab Emirates, who include Sheikh Mansour, Deputy

Prime Minister of the UAE and owner of Manchester City

Football Club – the same Manchester hit by a suicide bomb

that killed 22 people and was blamed on an Islamic terrorist

connected with terrorist groups in Libya. How about

Mansour sells the club and walks away in shame? But then

American, Saudi, UAE and Bahraini condemnation of Qatar

for funding terrorism shows they are incapable of shame.

Why would Qatar offer ‘enormous’ sums to transport a

chemical weapon to Syria ‘similar to those Assad should

have’? Only an idiot could not answer that question. Carla

Del Ponte, a former Swiss attorney-general and leading

member of a UN panel of inquiry into the 2013 chemical

attack blamed on Assad, said of the investigation: ‘I was a

little bit stupefied by the first indications we got ... they

were about the use of nerve gas by the [terrorist]

opposition.’ Those chemical attacks of 2013 and 2017 were

Problem-Reaction-Solution scenarios to stage the attacks or

the illusion of them and then blame Assad to justify action

against him and his country.



White

Hell-mets

F igure 4 9 4 : The White Helmet hoax.

‘Evidence’ of the 2017 chemical bombing came from the

so-called ‘White Helmets’, an American, British and EU-

funded ‘humanitarian’ organisation operating only in

terrorist-held areas of Syria. Abu Jaber, leader of Tahrir al-

Sham (al-Qaeda in Syria), said in a video in March 2017 that

the White Helmets were the ‘hidden soldiers of the

revolution’ (Fig 494). White Helmets were established in

2013 by James Le Mesurier, a British military intelligence

officer who graduated from the Royal Military Academy at

Sandhurst. He has reportedly been involved in similar

‘humanitarian groups’ in war zones including Iraq, Bosnia

and Kosovo and has connections to the US Blackwater

operation (now called Academi) which is a corporate arm of

the CIA and US Intelligence in general. White Helmets have

been exposed many times for staging nonexistent attacks

against civilians that they blame on Syria and Russia.

Footage of these ‘attacks’ are provided by them and

distributed to the media. They are not even good at it, but

people are so gullible, especially ‘journalists’. We have had

‘corpses’ open their eyes and footage has emerged of

‘victims’ being moved into place. One video shows a young

girl ‘pulled from the rubble’ from behind a lump of stone so

you can’t see what is going on and then she emerges

without a speck of dust on her while holding an absolutely

pristine-clean rag doll (Fig 495). When Swedish doctors

studied a White Helmets’ video claiming to show them

resuscitating children, this was the response from Dr Leif

Elinder, a Swedish medical doctor and specialist in

paediatrics: ‘After examination of the video material, I found

that the measures inflicted upon those children, some of

them lifeless, are bizarre, non-medical, non-lifesaving, and

even counterproductive in terms of lifesaving purposes of

children.’ YouTube (Google) have no problem with such

fakery putting the White Helmets in a good light while

videos exposing them have been taken down for ‘violating

terms and conditions’, which would appear to include telling

the truth. White Helmet personnel have been filmed working

with the most brutal terrorists, and a video was circulated in

the summer of 2017 of a White Helmet helping anti-Assad

militants to dispose of beheaded Syrian Army troops. Assad

was right when he said: ‘Our impression is that the West,

mainly the United States, is hand-in-glove with the

terrorists. They fabricated the whole story in order to have a

pretext for the attack.’ Pictures were released of the heroic

White Helmets treating children and others caught in the

alleged Assad sarin attack, but they were not wearing the

right protective clothing and if the pictures were genuine

they would all have been dead. Read the safety protocol for

dealing with sarin which includes ‘exposure to even small



doses of sarin can be lethal [and] damage can occur within

one minute of exposure’ and you’ll see that what we are

told is happening in the pictures is simply impossible (Fig

496). Professor Theodore Postol at the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology wrote a preliminary review of the US

government claims of ‘Assad is to blame’ and he said this of



the

White

Helmets:

F igure 4 9 5 : They need a better director and props manager.

F igure 4 9 6 : Miracle men – White Helmets respond to ‘sarin attack’

without the

correct protection but somehow they suffered no ill-effects. Amazing

people.

If there were any sarin present at this location when this

photograph was taken everybody in the photograph would

have received a lethal or debilitating dose of sarin. The

fact that these people were dressed so inadequately

either suggests a complete ignorance of the basic



measures needed to protect an individual from sarin

poisoning, or that they knew that the site was not

seriously contaminated.

F igure 4 9 7 : Don’t reveal any facts or question anything that would

trash the

official narrative.

This is par for the course for the White Helmets hoax, and

supports claims on Syrian television by terrorist Walid Hendi,

who said that while working with the White Helmets he

helped to fabricate a chemical weapons attack in the city of

Aleppo filmed by a Turkish TV station and blamed on

Assad’s army. Hendi said it was financed by Arab Gulf

countries. He described how they were filmed by two

people, whom he named, while White Helmets brought

stretchers to carry supposedly (but not) injured people. The

United States and the West protect their own lies from

public exposure by controlling any investigation into its

claims. This happened with the chemical attack and with the

shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 which was

blamed by the West on pro-Russian separatists over Eastern

Ukraine in 2014. MH17 was ‘investigated’ by a team based

in the Netherlands that was never going to produce findings

that didn’t suit the official narrative. Russian Defence

Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov asked the again

Netherlands-based Organisation for the Prohibition of

Chemical Weapons (OPCW) to explain how the White

Helmets could not be harmed when dealing with alleged

sarin (Fig 497). ‘If it is true that sarin was used in Khan

Shaykhun’, he said, ‘how can the OPCW then account for

the fact the charlatans from the White Helmets organisation

were hustling and bustling inside sarin clouds with no

protective gear on?’ No matter about such laughable flaws

the West-controlled OPCW duly announced that sarin was

used in the attack without saying by whom. Their

conclusions about the sarin came from samples produced by

the West-controlled White Helmets and other terrorist-

supporting groups. This was enough for Buffoon Boris, the

White Helmets-funding UK Foreign Secretary, to demand

‘international action’ against Assad. This is the demonise-

Assad-so-we-can-bomb-him strategy that is so transparent

it’s pathetic:

1) West blames Assad for sarin attack.

2) West produces no evidence.

3) Western organisation investigates.

4) Organisation does not visit site but takes ‘samples’

from West-controlled terrorists and Assad-hating groups.

5) ‘Investigators’ say sarin was used without saying by

whom.

6) Western politicians and media say this proves Assad

was to blame.



F igure 4 9 8 : News from the front.

A short film celebrating the White Helmets predictably

won an Oscar in 2017 to generate more anti-Assad

sentiment. The Oscars are often used to promote the El-lite

agenda as they were when Al Gore’s ridiculous global

warming propaganda film, An Inconvenient Truth, won an

Oscar. The Nobel Peace prize is used in the same way and

Gore won that, too, along with the mass-bombing, mass-

killing Barack Obama, Henry Kissinger and many other war

criminals. How fitting that peace prize founder Alfred Nobel

made his fortune from inventing dynamite and producing

armaments. Aljazeera, the propaganda arm of the Qatar



fake ‘royals’, reported: ‘The eponymously titled White

Helmets, a 40-minute Netflix film, gives a window into the

lives of the group’s volunteers as they scramble to pull

people from the rubble of buildings flattened in bombing

raids.’ This was straight from the song sheet and as such it

is absolute crap. Civilians rescued from Aleppo after Syria

and Russia liberated the city from Western-backed terrorists

confirmed the fraudulent nature of White Helmet activities.

One of the sickest examples of White Helmet propaganda

was a film broadcast by Britain’s Channel Four exploiting the

horrific fire at a London tower block in June 2017 in which

the Whites Helmets claimed ‘solidarity’ with those who died

and compared themselves with the firefighters who risked

life and limb to save as many people as possible. How

insulting to those firefighters to compare them with the

White Helmets and how insulting to the dead and injured to

exploit them for blatant propaganda to promote a Western-

funded front for terrorism. Another major source of anti-

Assad and Syria ‘information’ constantly quoted by the

mainstream media is the one-man Syrian Observatory for

Human Rights which is run by the Assad-hating Rami

Abdulrahman who lives in that well-known Syrian enclave of

Coventry in the English Midlands (Fig 498). No, don’t laugh.

Oh, go on then.

President

Manchild

F igure 4 9 9 : Donald Trump, reality TV star, is a perfect resident for

the House of

Illusion.

By now Trump was in the White House when he wasn’t at

his Mar-a-Lago golf resort in Palm Beach, Florida (Fig 499).

This was the Trump who said throughout his election

campaign that America should stop intervening in the affairs

of other countries and regime-changing governments; and

the Trump that called for better relations with Russia. But it

was also the Trump that constantly says one thing and does

another. Neocons were never going to allow their regime-

change agenda to be stopped or better relations with

Russians when they want to go to war with them, or at least

bring them and China to heel on the road to complete global

domination. General Michael Flynn, Trump’s pick for

National Security Advisor, wanted to end contrived

animosity with Russia. He was soon outed in a

manufactured ‘Russia scandal’ whipped up by the Neocon-

controlled ‘intelligence community’ and hysterical media

claims of collusion between the Trump team and Russia to

fix his election. Soon the Neocon mentality was in place in

all the crucial positions. ‘Let’s get on with Russia’ rhetoric

disappeared as an exercise in damage limitation amid the

‘Trump connives with Russia’ propaganda. Every time any

US accommodation and cooperation with Russia is mooted

the Neocons and their media prostitutes invent some Trump-

related ‘Russia scandal’ in an effort to ensure it doesn’t

happen. I have no doubt that Trump has long-time

connections with some very unsavoury Mafia types in Russia

as he does in the United States and his financial dealings

could bring him down in the end – if that is what the Hidden

Hand wants; but the idea that Russia got him elected is

supported by nothing but innuendo and fresh air. Swamp-

dweller Trump is another Neocon stooge (even if he doesn’t

always want to be) who put the military in charge of key

roles – General John Kelly, head of Homeland Security and

then White House Chief of Staff; General James ‘Mad Dog’

Mattis, Secretary of Defense; and General Herbert Raymond

McMaster, Flynn’s successor as National Security Advisor.

Add to those Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg who is

National Security Council Chief of Staff and General Mark S.

Inch, director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. All these

positions should be given to civilians to balance the war

crazies in uniform, but this is Neocon World and America is a

country built on war. The United States has been at war for

all but 21 years since it was formed in 1776 and the military

weaves through the very fabric of society. A law imposed in

2001 demands that schools submit data on all their

students so Pentagon recruiters can contact them directly at

home. If they don’t the schools lose funding. Poor kids are

targeted to become the military fodder of tomorrow and the

Pentagon has soldiers in school classrooms – even primary

schools – across America running military courses that

involve the already indoctrinated indoctrinating the

indoctrinatable. As a result, one young schoolboy said of the

US military: ‘They save the world and go around the world to

help people.’ Sure they do. 500,000 students are enrolled in

ongoing Pentagon courses at school and about 40 percent of

those still attending in their last year at High School end up

in the military. America is a military society and clueless

Trump handed control of US military action to Mattis and

McMaster or, put another way, to the Neocons that control

them. A military junta is now running US foreign policy on

behalf of the Hidden Hand after a bloodless coup. Mattis told

the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defence that

the president had delegated him complete authority over

the number of troops in Afghanistan as he had in Syria and



Iraq. Trump and Mattis were immediately bad-mouthing Iran

(PNAC hit-list) as a sponsor of terrorism and a danger to the

world and condemning North Korea (PNAC hit-list). Bush,

Obama or Trump – it doesn’t matter who you vote for the

Neocons/Democons and their Hidden Hand controllers

always get in and continue business as usual (Fig 500). We

have to focus our attention on the engineers, not the oil

rags. Trump has a notoriously short attention span and

interest in detail and this makes him so easy to manipulate.

F igure 5 0 0 : Illusory ‘choice’.

‘Non-interventionist’ Trump responded (was told to

respond) to the lie about the Assad ‘chemical attack’ in

early April 2017 by unleashing 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles

on an airbase in Syria which seems to have done terrible

damage to a canteen but strategically not much else. Oh,

yes, some seven people were killed. Don’t worry about that,

though, it’s only collateral damage. No evidence is required

any longer before the button is pressed. Even Bush and Blair

felt it necessary to at least make some up. Nobel Peace

Prize winner Obama sanctioned ten times more unmanned

drone strikes in faraway countries than his predecessor

Bush, but in the first 45 days alone of ‘non-interventionist’

Trump the rate of drone strikes increased by another 432

percent with one every 1.25 days. Trump has reportedly

given the CIA power to order drone attacks as they choose

(Fig 501). The Tomahawk attack on Syria was a clear breach

of international law and a war crime, but all the usual Web

suspects raced to the microphones to repeat the lies of

America. Someone played a recording of UK Defence

Secretary Michael Fallon who said ‘I agree with the

Americans’. El-lite gofer and yes-man Jens Stoltenberg,

NATO Secretary General, said that Assad ‘bears the full

responsibility for this development’ while German

Chancellor Angela Merkel and then French President



Francois Hollande issued a joint statement (Germany did in

other words) which said that ‘President Assad alone carries

responsibility for these developments’ for ‘repeated use of

chemical weapons and his crimes against his own people’.

Liars the whole lot of them. Russia’s President Putin accused

them of ‘nodding like bobbleheads’. Award-winning US

investigative journalist Seymour Hersh revealed there was

no American intelligence to connect the attack to Assad, but

Trump ordered the missile strike anyway (although no way

did he make that decision alone). CIA Director Mike Pompeo

later indicated that he had told Trump that Assad was

behind the chemical attack when there is no evidence for

that. Hersh compiled his report from interviews with several

US

advisers

and

from

transcripts

of

real-time

communications that immediately followed the strike. He

quotes a US officer saying to colleagues in the wake of

Trump’s

decision:

F igure 5 0 1 : Videogame mass murder.

None of this makes any sense. We know that there was no

chemical attack ... the Russians are furious. Claiming we

have the real intel and know the truth ... I guess it didn’t

matter whether we elected Clinton or Trump.



F igure 5 0 2 : America lies and Britain supports the lie.

No, it didn’t and it never does for all the reasons I have

been explaining for decades. Hersh reports that 39 of

America’s leading 100 newspapers published editorials

supporting the attack on Syria, including The New York

Times, Washington Post and Wall Street Journal. System-

serving CNN host Fareed Zakaria said the morning after: ‘I

think Donald Trump became President of the United States

last night. I think this was actually a big moment.’ This idiot

added that ‘for the first time, really, as president he talked

about international norms, international rules, about

America’s role in enforcing justice in the world.’ The

vacuous Zakaria said that Trump had displayed the same

qualities as past American leaders. In that he was right, but

not for the reasons he was claiming. MSNBC anchor Brian

Williams, spawned from the same intellectual desert as

Zakaria, was in raptures watching the launch of the missiles,

a sight he described as ‘beautiful’. Zakaria and Williams are

what passes for journalism and yet Facebook and Google

have no problem with them and their fake news – only those

trying to tell the truth. So, we had a US president ordering

the attack, the head of NATO and world leaders supporting

the attack along with major media and it was all based on

no evidence whatsoever. This is the scale of deceit that

happens worldwide day after day after day (Fig 502). In the

wake of the Hersh revelations the Trump gangsters had the

nerve to claim they had evidence (none supplied as usual)

that Assad was planning another chemical attack in late

June 2017 and would pay a heavy price if it went ahead. The

term ‘another’ meant in addition to the first two for which

the US provided no evidence. Michael Fallon’s video said ‘I

agree with the Americans’ and Rothschild-puppet Macron

pledged the support of France. We plumbed still new depths

of ludicrousness when Mad Dog announced that the US

warning to Assad of paying a heavy price had stopped the

attack happening (the one for which they provided no

evidence). ‘It appears that they took the warning seriously’,

said the man who loves killing people, ‘They didn’t do it.’

Miss Vacuous, UN Ambassador Nikki Haley, said: ‘Due to the

president’s actions, we did not see an incident. I would like

to think that the president saved many innocent men,

women and children.’ You have got to laugh or you would

weep.

The Tomahawk attack on Syria attack was engineered to

happen while Trump was with Chinese leader X i Jinping at

his Florida resort, and the manchild delighted in telling the

media how he revealed the Syria strike while they were both

eating ‘the most beautiful piece of chocolate cake’. Wilbur

Ross, Trump’s Rothschild Commerce Secretary and Wall

Street secret society bigwig, said the attack had been after-

dinner entertainment: ‘Just as dessert was being served, the

president explained to [China’s President] he had something

he wanted to tell him, which was the launching of 59

missiles into Syria – it was in lieu of after-dinner

entertainment.’ This is the sick mentality we are dealing

with. The Tomahawk strikes and soon afterwards the

dropping on Afghanistan of the biggest non-nuclear bomb

ever deployed in known human history were both to send a

Neocon message to China and Russia that the United States

is the Big Daddy who is not to be messed with. After the

Assad chemical attack lie came the claims that Saydnaya

prison not far from Damascus in Syria was a ‘human

slaughterhouse with mass-hangings, exterminations and a

crematorium to dispose of the bodies’. All except the

crematorium bit had surfaced before in claims by Amnesty

International, an organisation I do not even begin to trust

although as always I am sure there are many genuine

people among its ranks. Amnesty, which has received

funding from George Soros, claimed that anything between

5,000 and 13,000 prisoners have been executed at

Saydnaya since 2013, and that range of possibility alone

should make people question the information on which it is

based. No doubt Saydnaya is a deeply unpleasant place to

be, but Amnesty admitted there was no physical evidence

for its allegations and much of its case was illustrated using

a computer model of Saydnaya where none of the model

creators had ever been: ‘In a unique collaboration, Amnesty

International has teamed up with Forensic Architecture of

Goldsmiths, University of London, to reconstruct both the

sound and architecture of Saydnaya prison, and to do it

using cutting-edge digital technology to create a model.’

Eyal Weizman is the director of Forensic Architecture which

provides ‘evidence for international prosecution teams,

political organisations, NGOs, and the United Nations in

various processes worldwide’. In the wake of the US

Tomahawk attack the Saydnaya allegations were repeated

by the US State Department with the addition of the

crematorium. Stuart Jones, acting assistant secretary for

Near Eastern Affairs, spewed the usual lies about ‘well

documented’ chemical attacks by Assad and then read his

script about Saydnaya from which he quoted the Amnesty

International report. A journalist asked Jones how he knew

that the building that he was claiming to be a crematorium



was not used for something else. Was it because snow

melted on the roof more than surrounding buildings?

Couldn’t it just be that this building was simply warmer?

‘We’re looking at snowmelt on the roof that would be

consistent with a crematorium,’ Jones said. ‘Or just a

warmer part of a building, right?’ the reporter asked.

‘Possibly’, Jones replied. On this preposterous ‘evidence’ an

Israeli minister Yoav Galant said it was time to assassinate

Assad, ‘and when we finish with the tail of the serpent, we

will reach the head of the serpent, which can be found in

Tehran, and we will deal with it, too’. Oh, Syria and Iran –

two of the names on the Zionist Neocon Sabbatean Frankist

hit-list, yes? To the regime in Israel there is nothing,

absolutely nothing, that can’t be solved by violence and that

is perfectly in line with the evil ‘philosophy’ of Netanyahu

hero and Revisionist Zionism founder Ze’ev Jabotinsky.

F igure 5 0 3 : Child meets adult.

No-one flies! Er, except us The problem for the

Neocons is that the Russian leadership is far more intelligent

and wily than the Western leaders (hardly difficult, I know)

and to watch Russia Foreign minister Sergey Lavrov at press

conferences with US Secretary of State, the Exxon CEO, Rex

Tillerson, is to witness a father schooling a child (Fig 503).

Russia appropriately trumped the West with an agreement

brokered with Iran and Turkey for ‘no-fly’ or ‘safe zones’ in

Syria to isolate ISIS/IS and their terrorist allies and ensure

routes for food and other essential supplies to besieged

areas. The United States had wanted a different kind of ‘no-

fly zones’ which meant that no one could fly in those areas

... except them and their allies. This was done in Libya when

NATO policed ‘no-fly’ zones in which NATO could fly, but not

the Libyan air force and they protected their armed, funded

and trained ‘rebels’ from Gaddafi retaliation. Russia would

not accept that in Syria and instead negotiated with Syria,

Iran and Turkey for zones where literally no one could fly.

This included Israel which with its legendary arrogance has

been bombing in Syria on the pretext of stopping Iranian

arm supplies to Lebanon via Syria. Watch for Lebanon being

targeted because it was on the original PNAC list in 2000,

and also Sudan and Somalia where Trump eased restrictions

on air strikes put in place to prevent civilian casualties. The

man is a psychopath like those that control him. The US

responded to the Russian-negotiated no-fly zones by

creating its own arbitrary ‘deconfliction zones’ in Syria that

no one could enter, not even the Syrian army of a sovereign

government, without being attacked. This was done illegally

as a blatant act of war without agreement of the UN

Security Council or the permission of Syria which has invited

only Russia into its territory in terms of direct military

support. Every other country is an invasion force. America

has attacked any Syrian Air Force planes or Assad-

supporting groups entering the zones or even going close to

areas the US is occupying illegally under international law.

Where are you United Nations and International Criminal

Court? Silence. America uses the pathetic excuse of self-

defence to justify its attacks against Syrian sovereignty

when the real reason for those deconfliction zones is to

provide a safe haven to further train and arm terrorists for

new assaults on Assad and the tragic Syrian people, and to

lay the ground for the Balkanisation of Syria as per the

Israeli blueprint. America illegally occupies sovereign Syrian

land and then shoots down Syrian planes in self-defence?

Mad Dog Mattis, US Defense Secretary, was also upping the

stakes by taking out Syrian aircraft in the hope that either

Syria or Russia retaliate and he would have the full-blown

war that he and his Neocon controllers so desperately want.

Russia’s Defense Ministry said that the US had moved

multiple rockets launchers to its illegal al-Tanf military base

in a southern Syrian ‘deconfliction zone’ and it is obvious

that America is itching for Syrian or Russian retaliation to its

actions to trigger a wider conflict (Fig 504). Israel joined in

by attacking Syrian government targets after claiming that

Syrian missiles had ‘spilled over’ into the Israel-controlled

Golan Heights – land that Israel has occupied illegally since

1967. Russia thwarted the sick agenda of the Neocons and

now the US and Israeli governments and military are like

children in their terrible-twos throwing a tantrum because

they haven’t got their way. How befitting that manchild

Donald Trump is in the White House and manchild

Netanyahu is in Jerusalem. Russia/Syria, America and Jordan

agreed a ceasefire in parts of Syria in July 2017, but this was

only another attempt by the United States (the Neocons) to

get what they want by other means. Their goal is the

removal of Assad and the breaking up of Syria into

Balkanised regions. Russia must surely know that no

American government is ever to be trusted. Anyone in doubt

should ask the Native Americans. Israel’s Netanyahu

opposed the ceasefire and refused to be bound by any

agreement, but that’s understandable when your only

response to anything is either rage and violence.





F igure 5 0 4 : Mad Dog summed up in five words.’

F igure 5 0 5 : Ahhh! Save us from those toast burners.





F igure 5 0 6 : You can’t trust them.

So where now?

F igure 5 0 7 : Repeat the same lies enough times and most will

believe them.

I have been warning about the plan for World War III

pitching the West against China, Russia and their allies for a

long time now, from back in the days when there had been

no sign since the end of the Cold War that this could

happen. Today even the mainstream media has been talking

about the possibility as Russia has been subjected to

incessant demonisation in the most pathetically obvious

attempt to prepare the public mind for conflict. Russia has

been accused of fixing the American election in favour of

Trump and seeking to interfere in Brexit, the French election

and each new one in turn (Figs 505 and 506). The power of repetition

– ‘Russia hacked the election’ – led to one poll

recording that 59 percent of Democrats believed the

Russian government hacked into voting machines to fix the

result when not even the authorities are claiming that (Fig

507). Any situation involving the name ‘Russia’ is seized

upon and a molehill turned into Mount Fuji when no one

seeks to manipulate the outcome of elections all over the

world more than the United States. Mainstream media lie-

for-alivings were all over the story promoting the Trump-

Russia connection, but then in June 2017 CNN producer John

Bonifield was caught on a hidden camera by the Project

Veritas organisation saying the alleged Russian scandal was

‘bullshit’ and that CNN was pushing the story for ratings. I

think it’s more than that, but the point is taken. The fake

Russian scandal was hatched to block any coming together

with the United States because the Hidden Hand wants

conflict, war and not cooperation. Sanctions against Russia

on the basis of no evidence are another wedge that is used

to divide the countries. At the same time, a CNN reporter

and two editors resigned (were fired) over their involvement

in a story alleging a congressional investigation into links

between Trump officials and a Russian investment fund

which the channel had to retract. President Putin has been

accused of preparing to invade countries on Russia’s

Western borders with once again no evidence produced. I

am not saying that Putin is a Sunday school teacher. I am

saying that the idea that he is the new Joseph Stalin seeking

war with the West is ridiculous beyond words, but then

Western propaganda is ridiculous and indicative of the

kindergarten mentality that both produces and believes it.

Russia is part of the Web, too, in terms of its secret society

network and the Russian and American Deep States will be

the same global Deep State way beyond the public arena. I

have presented examples in other books of serious

cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union

at the Deep State level with regard to technology and other

matters while their governments were hurling abuse at each

other. Nothing is what it seems. How much influence the

Russian Deep State has over Putin will have to be judged

from his actions and those of his government. We should

always keep in mind that there are levels in every country

beyond the official leader however all-powerful that leader

may appear to be. I see this in North Korea where another

manchild, Kim Jong-un, always seems to start firing missiles

just when it suits the political purposes of the United States.

There are also the next to useless missiles fired from Gaza

into Israel whenever Israel needs an excuse for more mass

murder. NATO accuses Russia of aggressive actions against

the West when the opposite is the case. NATO is constantly

increasing its build-up of troops and military resources along

the border with Russia in Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia and

essentially acting as an occupying military force in those

former Soviet countries through so-called ‘milestone

agreements’ (Fig 508). Who believes that the national

armies of these states will now be able to act without NATO

sanction? We are witnessing the biggest build-up of Western

forces targeting Russia since the Cold War, which involves

all the countries on its borders with the West including

Poland. This is in response to nonexistent ‘Russian

aggression’ and betrays the Neocon technique of demonise-

then-invade. Lithuania produced a report about dangers

posed by Russia and among them was the use of social and

traditional media ‘to promote a positive image of itself’. Oh,

better bomb them, then. Putin clearly knows what is going

on and that ‘people’s revolution’ infiltrators are at work



against him in Russia in the usual way, with Soros-

connected ‘opposition leader’ Alexei Navalny used as the

current frontman. Nothing has changed with the election of

the fraud that is Trump and his campaign attacks on NATO

and talk of the US withdrawing from the killing machine

‘alliance’ are long gone. Obama Defense Secretary Ashton

Carter announced a four-fold increase in US military

spending in Europe in early 2016 to ‘meet the Russian

threat’. The script-reading Carter said that Russia and China

posed the greatest threat to world peace followed by North

Korea and Iran. The brutal Islamic State that was beheading

its way across the Middle East at that point was considered

worthy only of fifth place.

F igure 5 0 8 : The propaganda is pitiful.

Chessboard pieces The plan is for the Web via the

United States to dominate the world militarily by positioning

anti-nuclear missile interception technology close to Russia

and China to provide a first strike nuclear capability against

them in the knowledge that anything coming back would be

intercepted and taken out. Or, at least that’s the theory. I

should emphasise that when they say ‘intercepted’ they

mean before intercontinental ballistic retaliatory missiles

can hit the United States. Europe on the other hand which is

obviously much closer to Russia, would be destroyed. If

Russia and China put their hands up or bow down to the

United States on this basis maybe the crazies in Washington

won’t test the theory, but if they don’t then anything could

happen. The concept of MAD or Mutually Assured

Destruction is the incentive for all to leave nuclear weapons

in the box. US interception systems are purposely changing

that. A Russian military spokesman said US long-range

defence systems in Alaska, Romania and Poland increase

the potential to intercept missiles from Russia and the zone

of control covered almost the entire country. The strategic

threat to both Russia and China from a global defence

system giving potentially first-strike capability would only

grow, he said. The United States has used the excuse of the

nonexistent ‘Iranian threat’ to install intercept bases in

Europe which are really targeting nuclear Russia and not

non-nuclear Iran. The same has been done with regard to

China as the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD)

intercept system has been placed in South Korea using the

excuse of a ‘dangerous’ North Korea when the real target

again is China. The US deployed some THAAD launchers

without even telling the South Korean president, but public

protests have led to a block at the time of writing on further

deployments. Iran is an American target because it is an

Israeli target which means a Web target. A cache of emails

by 9/11 Secretary of State Colin Powell leaked by a hacking

group include a communication with business partner and

Democratic donor Jeffrey Leeds responding to claims by

Benjamin Netanyahu, a permanent advertisement for anger

management therapy, that Iran is a nuclear danger. Powell

wrote in 2015: Anyway, Iranians can’t use one [a nuclear

weapon] if they finally make one. The boys in Tehran know

Israel has 200, all targeted on Tehran, and we have

thousands. As Akmdinijad [misspelt former Iranian president

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad] said: ‘What would we do with one,

polish it?’ I have spoken publicly about both nK and Iran.

We’ll blow up the only thing they care about – regime

survival. Where, how would they even test one?

Amazing what these people will say in private that they

won’t in public, but as Hillary Clinton said in a leaked private

speech: ‘You need both a public and private position.’ In

other words, your public position is to lie. Israel has 200

nuclear missiles pointed at Iran when neither Israel nor the

United States will admit that Israel is a nuclear power even

though this is an open secret. Israel’s population is just

eight million. Do you think there might be just a little bit

more to know about Israel and its role in the world and why

it requires hundreds of nuclear warheads to protect its sliver

of land? The United States knows that Iran and North Korea

are not a threat to them but it suits the plans of the Hidden

Hand to convince people they are. You don’t see mention in

Mainstream Everything about what the United States

military did to North Korea in the war of the 1950s, which is

why so many in the country fear and despise the American

government. General Curtis Lemay, who coordinated the

bombing campaign against North Korea between 1950 and

1953, said: ‘We killed off – what – 20 percent of the

population. We burned down every town in North Korea ...’

About 1.55 million civilians were killed, but North Korea is

always the threat and not the world’s biggest killer of

human beings. North Korea dictator Kim Jong-un is a

manchild and tortures people. The United States President

Donald Trump is a manchild and has Guantanamo Bay. In

terms of the number of innocent human beings they kill the

US is way off the scale compared with North Korea. But one

is condemned as an evil tyranny and the other is promoted

as the shining light of the free and moral world. How easy it

is to hide the truth when one study found that only 36

percent of Americans know where North Korea is located

and in another poll 30 percent voted to bomb Agrabah – a

fictional town in Aladdin. They are fed lie after lie by the

media, politicians and the US and UK United Nations

representatives, the inane and childlike Nikki Haley and

warmonger Matthew Rycroft with his connections to Tony

Blair and the manipulated invasion of Iraq. The outstanding

British political journalist Peter Oborne wrote: ... Rycroft has

form as a hawk. He played a key role behind the scenes as a

Downing Street official on the eve of the Iraq war. He was

the author of the notorious ‘Downing Street memo’ which

showed that Blair believed that war with Saddam was

‘inevitable’ eight months before the invasion began and that

the Labour PM was committed to support U.S. plans for

‘regime change’ in Iraq.

Most cynically in that memo, Rycroft recorded that ‘the

intelligence and the facts were being fixed around the

policy’. This shameful document dictated the tone for the

subsequent fabricated dossier on weapons of mass

destruction, which falsely set out the basis for going to

war with Iraq.



Sadly, this wretched episode did no harm to Rycroft’s

career, seeing him rise to his current post, which is

Britain’s most important diplomatic job on the world

stage. It is, therefore, no surprise that the man who

played a central role in the damnable conspiracy which

took Britain to war with Iraq is at it again – banging the

drum and demanding military action in Syria.

F igure 5 0 9 : Lying for a living.

Rycroft and Haley are both wheeled out at the UN to

condemn with lie after lie the US target countries on the

Neocon hit-list with Rycroft employing his cold and

calculated venom and Haley as the head girl trying – and

failing – to act like a grown up (Fig 509). If her brains were

gunpowder they would not blow her hat off and appointing

her is just taking the piss. Israel-worshipper Haley said in

May 2017 that North Korea is ‘a true threat to the world’.

She could have been talking about Saddam, Gaddafi or

Assad. It’s the same script and they only change the name

and the script-reader. She said the international community

had to make a choice between supporting North Korea and

facing the wrath of Washington or, as Boy George Bush put

it 14 years earlier: ‘Either you are with us or you are with

the terrorists.’ Watch for propaganda attacks on China (and

countries bordering China) and efforts to break the alliance

between Russia, China and Iran. It’s easier to pick them off

one by one than all together.

World War III

Commander William James Guy Carr, an English-born

Canadian naval intelligence officer, claimed the existence of

a letter detailing a plan for three world wars in his 1959

book Satan, Prince of this World. He said the letter was

written in 1871 by the infamous Albert Pike, Supreme Pontiff

of Universal Freemasonry and influential in the creation of

the Ku Klux Klan. Pike’s letter was sent to Mafia founder and

Web asset Giuseppe Mazzini and accurately described the

first two world wars; but they had happened by the time of

Carr’s book and so the credibility of the content rests with

what Pike is claimed to have said about World War III:

The Third World War must be fomented by taking

advantage of the differences caused by the ‘agentur’ of

the ‘Illuminati’ between the political Zionists and the

leaders of Islamic World. The war must be conducted in

such a way that Islam (the Moslem Arabic World) and

political Zionism (the State of Israel) mutually destroy

each other. Meanwhile the other nations, once more

divided on this issue will be constrained to fight to the

point of complete physical, moral, spiritual and

economical exhaustion. We shall unleash the Nihilists and

the atheists, and we shall provoke a formidable social

cataclysm which in all its horror will show clearly to the

nations the effect of absolute atheism, origin of savagery

and of the most bloody turmoil.

A definition of nihilism: ‘A political belief or action that

advocates or commits violence or terrorism without

discernible constructive goals.’ This perfectly describes

ISIS/Islamic State and company and they are not only being

deployed in the Middle East but further afield in Europe

through terrorism, and in countries like the Philippines after

its president upset America by moving closer to China. The

Nihilists are indeed being unleashed to provoke a formidable

social cataclysm and the El-lite want open fighting on the

streets of Europe in the same way that we are seeing in the

Middle East, Africa and the Philippines. Pike’s letter

continued:

Then everywhere, the citizens, obliged to defend

themselves against the world minority of revolutionaries,

will exterminate those destroyers of civilization, and the

multitude, disillusioned with Christianity, whose deistic

spirits will from that moment be without compass or

direction, anxious for an ideal, but without knowing where

to render its adoration, will receive the true light through

the universal manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer

[the Demiurgic force], brought finally out in the public

view. This manifestation will result from the general

reactionary movement which will follow the destruction of

Christianity

and

atheism,

both

conquered

and

exterminated at the same time.

Some will point out that there was no Zionism or Israel in

1871, but I can’t stress enough how far ahead this plan is in

the making. Our perceived timeline is an illusion. The

Demiurgic Spider and its Archontic Reptilian assets beyond

our reality and apparent timeline have been planning this

long before even the weapons and technologies needed to

achieve their end were known about in our five-sense world.

They had these weapons and technologies all along and

they have been making them available to their hybrid

bloodline El-lite as the plan demanded and human

technological understanding and capability could build and

use them. Zionism and its base in Israel would have been in

the planning on the inside way long before they appeared to

the global public. The idea is to create such global war,

violence and chaos that the population will agree or even

demand a world government and army to intervene and

stop the war, violence and chaos – with many more

justifications thrown into the mix including the need for

world government to impose compulsory laws on everyone

to save the planet from global warming. In all these areas

progressives will be in the front line demanding what the

Web wants to happen without even knowing that the Web

exists. If they don’t wake up and start researching outside of

the box they will continue to be conduits for the very

fascism they spend so much time condemning.

World domination by the Archontic networks either

through acquiescence or World War III is the plan unfolding

before our eyes, but fortunately times are changing and

more people are becoming streetwise to the game and

selling tyranny is not as easy as it once was. The El-lite

know this and hence the efforts to silence the genuine

alternative media. Everyone who believes in freedom has a

duty to defend it.

Postscript: What makes the political and military lunacy

even more insane is that countries and their governments

are set up as private corporations – so are the courts and

virtually the entirety of ‘The System’ worldwide. They don’t

tell us that because they have to trick us into contracting

with them to have authority over us. We need to rip up the

contract and we can. The United States of America and the

‘United States’, for example, are not the same entity and

this also relates to why there is a yellow fringe on the US

flag on military uniforms. The fringe indicates that US troops

are fighting for the United States corporation, not the

country. I have covered this subject at length in other books

and there is an excellent explanation headed ‘InPower

Episode # 1: A Mass Action of Liability’ which you can see on

YouTube.





‘The rocket bombs which fell daily on London were probably

fired by the Government of Oceania itself, just to keep

people frightened’ – George Orwell, 1 9 8 4

War today cannot be divided from terrorism. It never could

in truth because all war is terrorism, but I mean in the

modern definition of killing civilians in public places and

making nowhere safe in the minds of the population.

Terrorism is now an excuse for war and invasion.

Terrorism perpetrated by, or blamed upon, West-created

psychopaths under names such as ISIS and al-Qaeda has

been increasingly employed to terrify the public, generate

ongoing fear and anxiety (food, low-vibrational states) and

justify the deletion of basic freedoms and privacy to ‘protect

the country from terrorism’ (Fig 510). These attacks are carried out by a combination of mindless idiots with no idea

who their real masters are; those under alter-compartment

mind control; and covertly by psychopathic military

intelligence networks which then blame ISIS and other

groups and individuals. The last method is easy when

attacks are carried out by people with masks who are

covered with clothing from head to foot. Once they leave

the scene you can name anyone as the perpetrator. Who

would know? There is no way when you look at the evidence

that 24-year-old neuroscience student James Holmes killed

12 people and wounded 58 at the Aurora, Colorado, movie

theatre in 2012 for which he was given 12 consecutive life

sentences. If you want to see someone obviously under

drug and mind control look at pictures of Holmes in the

courtroom. The real killer was dressed in black tactical

clothing and heavy body armour and wearing a gas mask.

He entered through an emergency exit that could only be

opened from the inside, threw a tear gas canister and

opened fire. Witnesses reported shooting and gas canister

explosions from two locations in the theatre and that a man

in the front row took a phone call and then walked across to

the emergency entrance and held it open with his foot

before the killer entered through that same door (see The

Perception Deception for the detailed background). The

authorities then named Holmes, a mind-controlled stooge,

and told the public a pack of lies about what happened.

British soldiers dressed as Arabs were arrested by Iraqi

authorities while driving a car carrying weapons and

explosives. They were busted out of jail before they could be

questioned when the moral British army sent six tanks and

an elite SAS unit, held Iraqi police at gunpoint, demolished

much of the jail and freed their own terrorists along with

other criminals and insurgents. When idiot or mind-

controlled terrorists are used in attacks they are often killed

on the basis that dead men can’t talk. Operation

Northwoods planned to embark on real or simulated actions

against various US military and civilian targets and the

same techniques continue today. Rockefeller insider Dr

Richard Day predicted the use of manufactured terrorism in



his talk to the Pittsburgh paediatricians in 1969 as reported

here by Dr Lawrence Dunegan:

F igure 5 1 0 : Everything.

There was a discussion of terrorism. Terrorism would be

used widely in Europe and in other parts of the world.

Terrorism at that time was thought would not be

necessary in the United States. It could become necessary

in the United States if the United States did not move

rapidly enough into accepting the system [transformation

of society].

But at least in the foreseeable future it was not planned ...

Maybe terrorism would not be required here, but the

implication being that it would be indeed used if it was

necessary. Along with this came a bit of a scolding that

Americans had had it too good anyway and just a little bit

of terrorism would help convince Americans that the world

is indeed a dangerous place ... or can be if we don’t

relinquish control to the proper authorities.

Today’s engineered terrorism has been planned for

decades and is nothing new. Only the scale and frequency

has changed. NATO and the CIA created a terrorist network

after World War II based in Italy and expanding across

Europe under the code name Operation Gladio. The term

came from a Roman word meaning ‘stay behind’. Operation

Gladio was claimed to be preparation for armed resistance if

the Soviet Union’s Warsaw Pact armies ever invaded. The

real reason, however, was described by Operation Gladio

operative Vincenzo Vinciguerra who is still serving a life-

sentence for killing three police officers with a car bomb in

Peteano, Italy in 1972. He said at his trial:

You had to attack civilians, the people, women, children,

innocent people, unknown people far from any political

game. The reason was quite simple. They were supposed

to force these people, the Italian public, to turn to the

state to ask for greater security.

Vinciguerra also told the judges:

With the massacre of Peteano, and with all those that

have followed, the knowledge should by now be clear that

there existed a real live structure, occult and hidden, with

the capacity of giving a strategic direction to the outrages

... [it] lies within the state itself ... There exists in Italy a

secret force parallel to the armed forces, composed of

civilians and military men, in an anti-Soviet capacity that

is, to organise a resistance on Italian soil against a Russian

army ...

... A secret organisation, a super-organisation with a

network of communications, arms and explosives, and

men trained to use them ... A super-organisation which,

lacking a Soviet military invasion which might not happen,

took up the task, on NATO’s behalf, of preventing a slip to

the left in the political balance of the country. This they

did, with the assistance of the official secret services and

the political and military forces.

Vinciguerra said in a statement to the Guardian

newspaper that the terrorism was perpetrated by

‘camouflaged people ... belonging to the security apparatus,

or those linked to the state apparatus through rapport or

collaboration’. He said that every single outrage that

followed from 1969 fitted into ‘a single, organised matrix’

with right wing terrorist groups Avanguardia Nazionale

(‘National Vanguard’) and Ordine Nuovo (‘New Order’)

‘mobilised into the battle as part of an anti-communist

strategy originating not with organisations deviant from the

institutions of power, but from within the state itself, and

specifically from within the ambit of the state’s relations

within the Atlantic Alliance’. Vinciguerra’s testimony is

describing exactly what is happening today. Observe the

response to every terror attack no matter where it may be

and you’ll see the same demands to increase the Big

Brother state to track terrorists and protect the public.

Troops were deployed on the streets of Britain after the

Manchester attack in May 2017 and ten thousand troops are

on public patrol in France in their ongoing official state of

emergency, which also imposes multiple restrictions on

public protest. We are going to protect your freedoms by

taking them away – Problem-Reaction-Solution. The UK

National Police Chiefs’ Council has also begun to press for all

British police officers to be armed with pistols. These are

only a few of the constant headlines that tell the story:

‘Berliners call for more CCTV with 83 percent saying more

public areas should be covered by cameras in the wake of

the Christmas market killings’

‘Germany debates putting “troops on the streets” to

protect against terrorism’

‘France to form National Guard amid calls to step up

security’

‘British police officers asked if they want to carry guns in

wake of terror attacks’

‘Theresa May says the internet must now be regulated

following London Bridge terror attack’

The military/police middle strata of the Hunger Games

Society pyramid is being constructed on the back of

terrorism and the need to ‘meet the threat’, when that

threat is really coming from the force behind the creation of

the military/police state. For this reason the authorities have

no interest in genuinely investigating what happened as we

saw with 9/11 and the Nice truck attack on Bastille Day in

2016 when the French government’s anti-terrorist executive,

SDAT, told urban surveillance authorities in Nice to illegally

destroy all 140 videos of CCTV footage. The French Ministry

of Justice said the reason was to stop ‘uncontrolled’ and

‘non-authorised’ circulation of the images and to prevent

ISIS from using them for propaganda. Destroying the

evidence would also ‘protect the victims’ families’. As if the

psychopaths care about that. They didn’t want the videos in

the public arena because some clearly didn’t support the

official story and this would have been quickly pointed out

by the public and independent media as we have seen in

attack after attack since 9/11.

Play it again, Sam

We have the same recurring theme with 9/11, the 7/7

bombings in London, the British police murder of an

innocent Brazilian electrician, the murder of Princess Diana

and many other tragedies – security cameras that would



have shown us what happened were ‘not working’. The

mainstream media report the technological ‘malfunction’

and quickly move on without a second thought. Go about

your business, nothing to see here. French authorities, as

with the inner core of ‘security’ networks worldwide, are sick

beyond comprehension, with staged horrors and cover-ups

galore to their name including the murder of Princess Diana

in conjunction with their Web buddies at MI6 in London. Go

deep enough and French intelligence is British Intelligence is

American Intelligence and so on through the Web

connections. Involvement of the security authorities in

setting up false flag terror attacks explains why so many of

those blamed for them in the US are in some way connected

to the FBI as informants or assets of informants (Fig 511). I have taken apart terrorist attack after terrorist attack in

other books – see The Perception Deception – and shown

them to originate with the very organisations whose official

job is to stop them. Attorneys for alleged ‘terrorist’ Samy

Mohamed Hamzeh said that hundreds of hours of tape

recordings prove that he was groomed to carry out a mass

shooting attack on a Freemasonic centre by two corrupt

undercover FBI agents who urged him against his will to

secure a machine gun. The FBI then arrested Hamzeh and

claimed to have ‘foiled a terrorist plot’ which they had

instigated from the start. Many intelligence insiders have

confirmed this false flag theme mostly through the

alternative media. Among them is David Steele, a former

Marine with 20 years’ experience as an intelligence officer

who was the second-highest-ranking civilian in US Marine

Corps Intelligence. He said that ‘terrorist attacks’ are false

flag attacks staged by security services:

F igure 5 1 1 : FBI or Feared By Informants.

In the United States, every single terrorist incident we

have had has been a false flag, or has been an informant

pushed on by the FBI. In fact, we now have citizens taking

out restraining orders against FBI informants that are

trying to incite terrorism. We’ve become a lunatic asylum.

Amaryllis Fox, a former counterterrorism agent who

worked for the CIA for ten years, talked of ‘stories

manufactured by a really small number of people on both

sides [ultimately the same side], who amass a great deal of

power and wealth by convincing the rest of us to keep killing

each other’. Put simply: Tell both sides that the other side is

out to destroy them and bingo you have a conflict. Henry

Kissinger made a whole diplomatic career out of this

technique which was hailed as ‘shuttle diplomacy’. Historic

false flags or Problem-Reaction-Solutions have been

admitted and confirmed again and again, decade after

decade, but were vehemently denied at the time they

happened. The Nazis set fire to the German Parliament in

1933 and blamed it on communists to justify the suspension

of civil liberties and freedom of the press which stayed in

place throughout the Nazi years. US President Lyndon B.

Johnson, who succeeded John F. Kennedy after the

assassination in which he was involved, secured

Congressional support to start open warfare in Vietnam on

the back of ‘attacks by the North Vietnamese’ on the

American Navy in the Gulf of Tonkin which never actually

happened. We have just passed the 50th anniversary of the

Israeli air and sea attack on the American naval ship USS

Liberty off the coast of Gaza during the Six Day War with

Egypt in 1967 which killed 34 crew members and wounded

171. Israel used unmarked planes in an attempt to blame

Egypt. When the lies unravelled they claimed the Liberty

was mistaken for an Egyptian ship – yeah, okay. American

warplanes responding to Liberty distress calls were twice

turned back on the orders of Zionist-controlled President

Johnson and Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. A

massive cover up followed that ruled it was an ‘accident’.

Israel admitted that an Israeli terrorist cell in Egypt planted

bombs in 1954 in US diplomatic buildings and other

locations and left evidence to implicate Arabs. False flags

are a speciality of Israeli military intelligence network,

Mossad (the Rothschilds). The Soviet Red Army attacked

their own border post in the Russian village of Mainila in

1939 and blamed it on Finland as the excuse to launch the

Soviet-Finnish ‘Winter War’. Hutu tribe soldiers in Rwanda,

Africa, killed their own president in 1994 and blamed it on

the rival Tutsi tribe which led to the best part of a million

Tutsis being killed by Hutus in the blood bath that followed.

A US Congressional committee revealed how the infamous

FBI ‘Cointelpro’ operation from the 1950s to 1970s used

agent-provocateurs to commit violence that could be

blamed on target political activists. The list is enormous and

why wouldn’t it be when Problem-Reaction-Solution is a

foundation technique of mass perception manipulation? If

you put ‘the ever-growing list of admitted false flag attacks’

into a search engine you can see around 70 of them.

Found a passport - you know the drill

The fact that we are looking at a recurring technique or

blueprint explains the repeating sequences that we see in

so many terrorist attacks. They include a terrorist passport

being found, the ‘terrorists’ identifying the cause with

‘Allahu Akbar’, or Allah is Greatest, and an anti-terrorism

drill or exercises happening at or around the same time at

the same place based on a scenario that is either similar or

exactly the same as what happens for real (Fig 512). The FBI

claimed to have found a paper passport of a ‘9/11 hijacker’

in Vesey Street at Ground Zero which had somehow

survived a fireball plane crash and floated down to be

discovered amid the extraordinary scale of debris and dust.

Once this was announced and repeated by the mainstream

media (without even laughing) the passport was just

forgotten. It never existed, of course, but telling people it

had been found confirmed in the minds of the unquestioning

and naï ve that the official story was true. ‘See Honey, it was

them Islams, they’ve found a passport.’ We had the same

theme with the 7/7 London tube train and bus bombings in

2005 when the authorities claimed to have found a passport

and mobile phone insurance of one of the ‘terrorists’,

Germaine Lindsay, who was supposed to have exploded a

bomb in his backpack. The bombing was on July 7th,

Lindsay’s home was raided on July 13th and the passport,



insurance and other documents were found in the carriage

on July 17th and 18th according to the inquest – ten and

eleven days after the event. Yep, sounds credible. Passports

and other identification were found in attacks in Berlin,

Paris, Nice, New York and Manchester where a bank card

survived from a bomber who is said to have exploded a

device on his person so powerful that it killed 22 people and

injured 250. Official stories of terrorist attacks are full of

glaring holes because they are invariably not true or at least

twisted. Thus you have witnesses describing how the impact

damage in tube carriages in the 7/7 attacks bent inwards

and not outwards as it would if a bomb was inside the train.



F igure 5 1 2 : What a bomb shelter they would make – they’re

obviously

indestructible.

F igure 5 1 3 : ‘Training drills’ give cover for El-lite personnel on the

ground to

stage an attack.

Then there are the drill ‘coincidences’ (Fig 513). A series

of air force ‘training exercises’ involving staged commercial

airliner hijacks were happening in the sky over the United

States and its Eastern Seaboard during the 9/11 attacks

which basically mirrored what actually happened (see Alice

in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster and The

David Icke Guide to the Global Conspiracy). These exercises

scrambled the usual emergency response by operatives

with the North American Aerospace Defense Command

(NORAD) which is there to protect America from air attack

and deal with plane hijackings. Operators were confused

about whether the real attacks were part of the exercises.

‘Is this real world or an exercise?’ one responder asked as

recorded in the NORAD logs that morning. Exercises also

moved air force planes from where they would normally be

waiting on alert to immediately react to hijackings. The time

it took for them to respond on 9/11 was ridiculous – as

planned – and the White House and Pentagon are in no-fly

zones where anything flying without permission can be

taken down. So why didn’t that happen to Flight 77 which is

claimed – claimed – to have struck the Pentagon? You

cannot declare no-fly zones to protect those buildings and

then not have the means on permanent stand-by to police

them. So what happened on September 11th? Anyone who

reads the background to 9/11 as set out in detail in my

books will be astounded to think that the mainstream media

has questioned nothing about the official story which was

given to them by the very people who claimed there were

weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. A security ‘practice’

drill scenario related to the same locations as the 7/7

attacks in London was happening at the same time as the

actual attacks and this was also the case with the Boston

Marathon bombings in 2013. This happens repeatedly

because the drill or exercise is the smokescreen that allows

the real attacks to happen and gives cover to the military

intelligence personnel who are behind them. Other false flag

operations involve clueless pawns or those under

Manchurian Candidate-type mind control. The image of

terrorist cells everywhere peopled by Islamic fanatics

reading the Koran all day is a fantasy. Alleged 9/11

‘hijackers’ were so lax with their Korans that they left them

everywhere – hotel rooms, hire cars, all over the place. Or,

rather, that is what the authorities told us. Korans were

usually found alongside flying manuals. How predictable the

manipulators are, but as the Nazis said the best propaganda

is always the simplest. You want to sell a belief that Islamic

fanatics flew the planes on September 11th? Okay, say you

found Korans and flying manuals where they were supposed

to have been. ‘Said Ramzi’ is a pseudonym for an

undercover reporter with French TV who produced a

documentary, Allah’s Soldiers, after infiltrating a group of

ISIS supporters planning a terror attack in France. This is

what he found:

The militants had very little understanding of Islam – they

were ‘fast food jihadis’ ... One of the main lessons was

that I never saw any Islam in this affair ... No will to

improve the world. Only lost, frustrated, suicidal, easily

manipulated youths.

One of the group urged ‘Ramzi’ to join him on the ‘path to

paradise’ in a suicide attack and secure his reward from

Allah: ‘Our women are waiting for us there, with angels as

servants. You will have a palace, a winged horse of gold and

rubies.’ Er, I don’t think so, but this is who we are really

dealing with. They are easily manipulated idiots controlled

by those further up the hierarchy that they don’t even know

exist. An ISIS middle man based in Raqqa, Syria, was their

go-between in the case of ‘Ramzi’s’ group, but who



controlled him and to what end? They would have no idea.

The compartmentalised structure in Figure 514 is used to

keep each lower level more ignorant than the one above

and you don’t have to go very high before any connection to

Islam is long gone. Again and again after terrorist attacks

we are told that the alleged perpetrators were known to the

security agencies and that is true in both Europe and with

the FBI and CIA in the United States. The phenomenon is so

widespread it has been given a name – ‘known wolf’. Some

attacks are 100 percent staged with so-called ‘crisis actors’

playing their parts and talking to the media. The same

people have been exposed for turning up at different

incidents in different guises. It may sound bizarre but for

sure there are companies that specialise in training people

to play a part convincingly in training exercises. One

company says:

F igure 5 1 4 : Rank and file terrorists have no idea who their real

masters are.

We dramatise events for emerging security needs in the

UK, Middle East and worldwide. Our specialist role play

actors – many with security clearance – are trained by

behavioural psychologists and rigorously rehearsed in

criminal and victim behaviour to help police, the army and

the emergency services, hospitals, schools, local

authorities, government, private security firms, shopping

centres,

airports,

big

business,

criminal

justice

departments, media and the military to simulate incident



environments for life saving procedures ... We use state of

the art British film industry techniques, props and special

effects ...

There are similar organisations openly providing rent-a-

mobs for fake protests. Crisis actors, fake protestors and

videos in which you can make people say anything. This is

the world we now live in and people need to get streetwise

and not accept things on face value. El-ite-manufactured

terrorism has one goal: To make you so terrified that you will

give your freedoms away in the name of safety and

protection. Don’t fall for it.

The Exodus

F igure 5 1 5 : Vast numbers of people coming into Europe are part of

a much

bigger agenda.

Fear of terrorism has been increased on purpose by the

massive movements of people into Europe from North Africa

and the Middle and Near East (Fig 515). There are many

reasons why this has been made to happen, but the two

main ones are diluting individual cultures and traditions of

Europe and the omnipresent divide and rule as incomers

and indigenous populations are set at war with each other.

The plan is to delete sovereign countries and divide them

into regions ruled by superstates like the EU which would

themselves be ruled by the world government. A continuing

sense of culture, history and tradition are major problems

for the El-lite because they know this would generate

profound resistance to destroying countries and bringing in

their regionalised cultural-fusion and tyranny in yet another

expression of divide and rule. So, you have cultural identity

in Europe being systematically eroded by introducing a

completely different culture on a mass scale. Rockefeller

insider Dr Richard Day knew this was coming in 1969 as

part of the transformation of human society. He said there

would be mass movements and migrations of people

without roots in their new locations because ‘traditions are

easier to change in a place where there are a lot of

transplanted people, as compared to trying to change

traditions in a place where people grew up and had an

extended family, where they had roots’. The Frankfurt

School of social engineering, founded by Zionists in the

1920s, wanted ‘huge immigration to destroy national

identity’. This migration crisis did not happen by accident,

but by design. First there was the easily predictable cause

and effect of creating mass death, destruction and mayhem

in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria and elsewhere. Enormous

numbers of people were sure to seek refuge from the fear

and violence and the only direction for such escape was

north into Europe. But that alone was not enough for the El-

lite in transforming European culture and they added to the

genuine refugees of war who need and deserve our help a

far, far, greater number who were using the plight of the

genuine to transplant themselves into Europe for purely

economic

and

personal

reasons.

This

may

be

understandable when they seek to leave countries in a state

of Western (Web)-created deprivation, but it is still a fact

and the word ‘refugees’ is used when the great majority are

not. Look at the pictures of the hordes of people walking the

migrant trails and you see that families and children are the

serious minority compared with the domination of young

adult men (Fig 516). A breakdown of unauthorised migrants

arriving in Europe by sea in 2015 reveals that 58 percent

were adult males, 17 percent were adult females, and 25

percent were minors under 18 years of age. Most of those

arriving in Germany had no passport or paperwork to

confirm their origin, but figures from the UN Refugee Agency



(UNHCR) reveal that of the more than 180,000 migrants

arriving in Italy by sea in 2016 almost a fifth were from

Nigeria followed in number by those from Sudan, Gambia,

Ivory Coast, Guinea, Somalia, Mali, Senegal and Bangladesh.

Mass immigration is overwhelmingly not about supporting

those fleeing war in the Syria and Libya. Do people really

think that the child-sacrificing El-lite care about migrants?

They are just pawns to them to be used and abused as

necessary. Strings attached to the migrants and strings

attached to the indigenous populations are being held by

the same hand. An intelligence report leaked to the German

newspaper Bild in May 2017 said that nearly seven million

migrants in countries on the Mediterranean were waiting to

make the journey into Europe. A million were in Libya, 3.3

million in Turkey, and a million in Egypt with others from

Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco and Jordan. Should the EU

agreement with Turkey to reduce the flow of migrants break

down, the numbers will again increase dramatically. Saying

this may be not be politically correct, but I couldn’t give a

damn. These are facts and truths that we need to face

before it is too late. Progressives and those in fear of them

are not interested in facts and reality, only mass virtue

signalling.

F igure 5 1 6 : A massive majority of migrants are not families and

children

fleeing war (refugees) but adult young men (economic migrants).

All planned long ago

The process of cultural transformation began in countries

such as Britain and Sweden many decades ago when

politicians, without asking the population, decided that

these societies would become ‘multicultural’. I spent the

first 15 years of my life, and a few years later, living in

Leicester in the English Midlands which was a target city for

the multiculturalists. You only ever saw white people in the

1950s but by the 1970s that had dramatically changed and

those who had lived in Leicester all their lives hardly

recognised areas of the city where they were born. Those

who complained about the scale of the change were

dismissed as racists – just as they are today. But most were

not racist at all. They were troubled and fearful at seeing

the communities they once knew disappearing so fast and

being replaced by another culture they did not know or

understand. There was no empathy with how they felt, only

abuse and contempt from the authorities, media and what

are now called progressives who believe that empathy

should be reserved only for those that agree with their belief

system. Out of that voiceless frustration came the rise of

the far right in parties like the UK National Front. The same

is happening today across Europe and it is only a much-

expanded repeat of what I watched happen in Leicester

decades ago where the foundation of the problem was sheer

numbers. The first inflow mainly from the West Indies was

fine overall and many arrived at my school where everyone

pretty much got on and became friends and mates in a

spirit of mutual integration. What tipped the balance was

that the numbers went on increasing with massive arrivals

from Asia (including Ugandan Asians) and the culture of

Leicester was utterly transformed in a matter of years. Nor

was this about integration in many areas, but cultural

domination and replacement of what was there before.

Those that saw their communities literally taken over by an

incoming culture were left voiceless and dismissed as

racists and bigots. Political correctness has been specifically

created to make people voiceless in this and so many other

ways. The 2011 census revealed that only 45 percent of the

Leicester population was by then white British compared

with 61 percent ten years earlier and that number is bound

to go on falling. Progressives and those like them who hurl

‘racist’ in all directions cannot distinguish the difference

between cultures and numbers. I love cultural diversity –

how boring if everyone was the same – and as I travel

around the world it is sad to see this diversity fusing globally

year on year into a congealed blob of cultural neutrality. The

McDonald’s-Nike-Apple ‘culture’, as you might describe it.

But you don’t protect cultural diversity by having one

replace another. As the number of migrants go on increasing

the earlier arrivals and their successors suffer the

consequences, too. But, don’t worry, you can pour water

into a jug forever and it will never overflow, bless ’em. The

childlike naï vety is unbelievable. Official bias towards the

new culture and against the old dramatically increased in

Leicester when the incoming population became a pivotal

electorate in deciding political power in the city and the

same bias is happening now in many parts of Europe.

Progressives reading this will be having apoplexy and

screaming ‘racist’ because that is all they know, but I am

seeking to look at this with some maturity and peripheral

vision and not down the myopic lens of rampant self-purity

and virtue signalling. I don’t want the far right in charge any

more than the far left or far centre. I want people of

maturity, balance and fairness who can see the shades of

grey. There are at least two sides to every story and

situation and you don’t see anything clearly by considering

only one.

Confirmation that mass immigration is planned for the

benefit of the El-lite comes with the central role of Tony

Blair, the genetic liar and war criminal whose obsession with

the European Union confirms the importance of that

grouping to unfolding human control. When Blair speaks and

acts the El-lite is speaking and acting. Andrew Neather, a

former adviser and speech writer to Blair and UK Home

Secretaries Jack Straw and David Blunkett, has revealed how

immigration controls were deliberately relaxed under Labour

Party Prime Minister Blair to ‘open up the UK to mass

migration’. He said that Blair and his ministers kept the

policy secret because they feared alienating their party’s

‘core working class vote’ in areas where they knew most

migrants would go with the consequences of competing for

jobs and driving down wages by working for less. The

Labour Party hierarchy has long had contempt for its

traditional white working class support and behind all the

bullshit and slogans it still has. ‘Progressives’ and the Left in

general support mass immigration when the biggest winners

are rich people who can slash wage costs and exploit cheap

labour. Instead of telling their ‘core working class vote’ the

truth, Blair and his rabble publicly argued that immigration

had economic benefits (yes, for the rich) and Britain needed

more migrants. In ten years under Tony Blair and his very

strange Labour Party successor, Gordon Brown, they allowed

2.2 million to settle in the UK which is double the population

of the second biggest city, Birmingham. Andrew Neather

said that a secret government report in 2000 called for mass

immigration to change Britain’s cultural make-up forever.

This is precisely what they are seeking to do throughout

Europe and that is the simple and supportable fact which

the authorities won’t publicly admit and progressives refuse

to face. There is a war on individual and unique cultures and

this is partly the reason for the destruction and theft of

irreplaceable ancient artefacts (and razing whole cities like

Mosul) in countries invaded by the United States or its proxy

terrorist armies as we have seen in Syria and Iraq.

Successive Swedish governments have pursued the same

policy that Blair did after the initial kick-start to Swedish

multiculturalism provided in the 1960s by Polish Zionist

David Schwarz who emigrated to Sweden in the early 1950s

and became the foremost proponent of government support

for immigration, the protection of incoming cultures and the

dilution of the native one. This policy became official in

1975 and by 2001 the Social Democrat politician Mona

Sahlin was announcing that ‘Swedes must be integrated into

the new Sweden; the old Sweden is never coming back’.

Government-funded propaganda advertisements to this

effect appear on Swedish television. ‘Progressive’ Fredrik

Reinfeldt, Sweden’s Prime Minister between 2006 and 2014

who pressed for more immigration, said that Swedes were

‘boring’, national borders were fictional and ‘only barbarism

is genuinely Swedish’ while everything else came from

outside. Clearly in his case breathtaking arrogance was also

home-grown. Challenge such remarks and policies in

Sweden and one of the most tolerant and egalitarian

peoples in the world are condemned as racist. American

Zionist and academic Barbara Lerner Spectre who relocated

to Israel in the 1960s before heading to Sweden with her

husband Rabbi Philip Spectre is quite open about the Zionist

role in changing European culture. Spectre founded Paideia,

the European Institute for Jewish Studies in Sweden, funded

by the Swedish government. She said in a television

interview:

I think there’s a resurgence of antiSemitism because at

this point in time Europe has not yet learned how to be

multicultural, and I think we’re gonna be part of the throes

of that transformation, which must take place. Europe is

not going to be the monolithic societies that they once

were in the last century.

Jews are going to be at the centre of that. It’s a huge

transformation for Europe to make. They are now going

into a multicultural mode, and Jews will be resented

because of our leading role. But without that leading role,

and without that transformation, Europe will not survive.

The arrogance of those words is without limit, and how

ironic that the Israeli authorities have such contempt for

African migrants in their country and offer them money and

flights to leave. Former interior minister Eli Yishai has been

quoted as saying that Israeli authorities ‘make their lives

miserable’ until they give up and allow the government to

deport them. Prime Minister Netanyahu has said: ‘If we

don’t stop their entry, the problem that currently stands at

60,000 could grow to 600,000, and that threatens our

existence as a Jewish and democratic state.’ Israel doesn’t

want refugees or migrants but it does want to clear the

Middle East of as many non-Jews as possible in pursuit of its

‘Greater Israel’ or Eretz Yisrael. Professor Arnon Soffer from

Israel’s University of Haifa said: ‘We are witnessing the

beginning of a mass migration [out of the Middle East], such

as the incursions of the peoples of the sea or the Huns.’

Once more the ‘resurgence of antiSemitism’ manipulation

technique is employed by Spectre to explain why Europeans

don’t want to see their culture disappear. Maybe she might

consider (she won’t) that she is the cause of the resentment

of which she claims to be a victim by having the astonishing

conceit and sense of superiority to tell the whole of Europe –

hundreds of millions of people – how things are going to be

whether they like it or not.

Sweden’s basically no-limits policy on immigration has

been an absolute disaster both for most incomers and the

native people, with Sweden taking more migrants in ratio to

population than any other country in the developed world.

In 2015 alone 180,000 were accepted which is bigger than

the population of all Swedish towns and cities except the

biggest three. Many are allowed in – as in other countries –

because they are children, when they are well over six-foot-

tall, extremely muscular and have beards. But don’t point

out such nonsense or you are a racist. New age tests in

Sweden have established that three out of four of those

given asylum because they were children were in fact over

18. The once prosperous Swedish economy is being

destroyed by the immense cost of housing and funding such

ratio-vast numbers of migrants, who arrive unable to speak

the language and so with employment possibilities

negligible for most. Sweden’s famed welfare system is

buckling under the ever-increasing demands. Yet still we

have progressives calling for more immigration on their ‘I’m-

a-white-oppressor’ guilt trip and those like Ugandan-born

Victoria Kawesa, leader of the Feminist Initiative Party, want

to open all borders and end the deportation of migrants who

commit crime including rape. That’s some ‘feminist

initiative’, eh? Oh, yes, and she wants a tax on men. Don’t

ask. Ms Kawesa would never have the humility to question

whether someone who was welcomed into Sweden when

she needed to flee Africa and now calls for the deletion of all

border controls, so destroying Sweden as we have known it,

might just add to the resentment that many native Swedes

feel towards immigrants. Self-obsessed and ridiculous

statements by people like Kawesa and Spectre lead to

resentment towards all immigrants and all Jewish people

who are tainted with their brush. They are causing the very

thing they say they oppose but their giant egos and

inexhaustible self-importance can’t see that. There is a

backlash against all migrants when videos appear of a

migrant telling a German man that Islam will come to

Germany, his daughter will wear a headscarf, his son will

wear a beard and that they are reproducing so much faster

than Germans that they will conquer the country by birth

rates (plus all the family members that follow once asylum

for one is secured). Another video has a Muslim man

bragging about the rape of European women – ‘We are

taking Europe from the Europeans and they are too stupid to

fight back’ ... ‘They are going to pay us to conquer them and

take their land’ ... ‘What I look forward to most is the

destruction of European womanhood’. Another boasted

about raping a young white virgin girl with seven of them

involved. This is going to create racial harmony, is it?

Perhaps the feminist progressives would care to comment.

I couldn’t care less about someone’s race. We are all one

consciousness having different experiences. I care about

what people are and what they do irrespective of creed and

background, but the manipulators are focusing on race and

so we have to address that to understand their agenda

which includes the targeting of European white races.

Lamya Kaddor, a German scholar of Islamic studies with

Syrian ancestry, told a German TV programme that being

German in the future will mean having a migrant

background. ‘No more blue eyes, light hair and “We’re all

German” – being German also means wearing a hijab.’

Kaddor introduced Islamic education in German public

schools and published the first German translation of the

Koran for children and adults. I am now seeing the Muslim

hijab or head-covering being promoted as a symbol of

feminism in music videos and Alexander Van der Bellen, the

truly moronic president of Austria and former Green Party

leader, called for all women to wear headscarves in

solidarity with Muslims to fight ‘rampant Islamophobia’.

What about his rampant stupidity? Let’s go the whole way

and insist that all women wear the burka, shall we? Women

should not be heard or even seen, right? The gathering

theme is the Islamisation of Western society and this is not

for the benefit of Islam, but the Hidden Hand exploiting

Islam

and

its

advocates

just

as

they

created

Wahhabism/Sharia law to usurp more secular Islam. Children

and the young are being especially targeted to completely

transform Western society when they become adults.

Austria’s Van der Bellen, for example, made his remarks

about the hijab to school children.

Shhhhh! The truth is not allowed

Walter Lubcke, district president in the small Germany city

of Kassel, responded to local concerns about immigration by

saying that anyone who didn’t agree was ‘free to leave

Germany’. How do you think Germans are going to feel

about being told they can leave their own country when

they complain about so many of a very different culture

coming in from outside? Calls for compulsory Arabic to be

taught to all children in German schools is not going to add

fuel to the potential fire of indigenous resentment? Or when

communities see those who settle in their countries insisting

on taking over entire areas with their own culture at the

systematic exclusion of others and operating Islamic Sharia

law as if in a country within a country or parallel societies.

This is the same Sharia Law that is used in Indonesia to

target homosexuals and transgender people and where

homosexuals have been publicly caned while a big crowd

watches and cheers. How does that go down with you,

progressives? Are we naï ve enough to think that Sharia Law

fanatics don’t want to impose this wherever they go? Sharia

law is Wahhabism which is Saudi Arabia which is Israel

which is Revisionist Zionism which is Sabbatean Frankism

which is Satanism. How can it be acceptable for Muslim

women – and non-Muslim women – to be harassed and

controlled by male Muslim ‘religious police’ in countries that

find that abhorrent? A Swedish television team interviewed

mosque officials about gender equality and they said they

agreed with it. Then two journalists went back posing as

Muslim women and their hidden cameras recorded the same

people telling them they were expected to sleep with their

husbands even if they didn’t want to, accept being beaten

and not to go to the police. This is everything that Sweden

once stood up against, but half of these mosques are

government funded. We are not only talking fairness and

freedom for non-Muslim people – what about the horrendous

way Muslim women are treated by Wahhabist Sharia law

which sees women as little more than slaves to serve their

programmed husbands? We also have the wave of ‘honour’

killings in countries like Germany where women are killed

for perceived slights against men or falling in love with the

‘wrong’ person? Where are you then progressives? This is

happening today across Europe. A school in Birmingham,

England, was exposed in a government report for

segregating pupils and having books in its library which

advocated husbands beating their wives.

Former Swedish Social Democrat politician Nalin Pekgul, a

feminist, told Swedish television that she no longer feels

safe in the Stockholm suburb where she has lived for 30

years because of a rise in religious fundamentalism among

men and she can’t visit the suburb centre without being

harassed. Zeliha Dagli, a former Left Party politician, moved

from her suburb because of Muslim ‘morality police’ who

want to control women’s behaviour in the area. She said

that aggression towards feminists had become an issue and

she did not feel safe anymore. Blimey, the irony of it and all

you progressives elsewhere are going to face the same if

this is allowed to continue and go on expanding. A report

commissioned by Sweden’s Civil Contingencies Agency, part

of the Ministry of Defence, warned that Muslim Brotherhood

extremists were seeking to spread Islam in Sweden,

instigate tensions in secular society and target political

parties, institutions and other organisations to secretly build

a ‘parallel’ society in Sweden. With a Swedish population of

only ten million this process of infiltration and takeover

could be achieved relatively quickly compared with much

bigger countries. The report also described how those who

challenge this process ‘run the risk of being called “racist”

or “Islamophobic” and because of the situation in Swedish

society such classifications endanger people’s careers’.

Political correctness is there to censor exposure of what is

really happening long enough for the end goal to be

achieved with minimum challenge. Robert Menard, mayor of

the French town of Bé ziers, was fined two thousand euros

for ‘inciting hatred’ by saying there were too many Muslim

children in local schools. Menard said that one class was 91

percent Muslim children: ‘I do not find it desirable for

children and their mothers that there are ghetto schools and

to find solutions, it is necessary to say what it is.’ Oh, but

you can’t if it could damage the immigration agenda that is

exploiting both migrants and native populations because

the El-lite have contempt for both. President Macron, the

Rothschild vassal, announced plans to buy 62 hotels across

France to be turned into migrant shelters, but mayors and

police unions said this could mean that towns with smaller

populations were ‘filled with hundreds of single men’. This is

what is meant to happen with local populations and the

‘hundreds of single men’ both pawns in the same ‘game’.

Highlight any of this and progressives (and the

Establishment they underpin) can’t scream ‘racist’ fast

enough. Scream what you like, I could not give a fuck. These

things have to be said and we must not be intimidated into

silence by arrogant self-obsessed myopic self-purity. All

balance and common sense has been usurped and we need

to bring them back. Progressives complain about the ‘rise of

the far right’ when political parties emerge that voice views

and opinions which are otherwise silenced by the tyranny of

political correctness and Orwellian ‘hate’ laws. PC

progressives are causing what they protest about, but they

are too blind and obsessed with their own self-purity to see

that.

I spoke in Sweden several times in the 1990s and early

2000s and then there was a gap of many years until I

returned to speak in Gothenburg in 2017. Sweden was not

the same place. There was an air of fear in the air and

advice not to go to certain areas after dark including a

shopping mall. Rapes have risen sharply – by 13 percent in

2016. This forced the Swedish government Integration

Minister to apologise for saying that the level of rape was

‘going down and going down and going down’ in reply to a

claim that the city of Malmo is the ‘rape capital of Europe’.

The country’s leading music festival announced the

cancellation of the event for 2018 after a series of rapes and

sexual assaults in 2017. A Swedish radio presenter then

proposed plans for a festival in which all men were banned.

She said: ‘What do you think about putting together a really

cool festival where only non-men are welcome, that we’ll

run until ALL men have learned how to behave themselves?’

I think it is a pathetic and very sinister idea to ban all men –

or all anyone – for the actions of a few instead of dealing

openly with the few. Where does that road end? I know, let’s

jail all men for the crimes of a few because that way we’ll be

sure to stop male crime. Crazy, but that’s the ‘progressive’

mindset for you and their frontline influence is leading to

Sweden losing its mind and all sense of perspective. Sexual

assaults have soared in Sweden and so has crime in general

while the authorities desperately try to hide the background

by preventing police officers from telling the truth and

banning ethnic and nationality details from being recorded

in crime reports. An internal letter circulated by police

authorities in Stockholm instructed officers that the public

should not be told of a suspect’s ethnicity, nationality, skin

colour and height. Oh, that should help to find them, then.

The letter added: ‘Criticism is sometimes made against

police regarding information about people’s skin colour. It is

perceived as racist.’ But not essential to locate the

perpetrator, it seems. I mean, they’re only the police after

all. Dutch national newspaper De Telegraaf reported how

police offered them special treatment with leads and

exclusive stories if they dropped a Freedom of Information

request asking for the number of asylum seekers involved in

crime. This was refreshing given that the mainstream media

fundamentally contributes to hiding the reality of what is

happening until the point of no return is crossed.

There are ‘no-go areas’ in Swedish cities where police

won’t go except in numbers and among them is the now

notorious Stockholm suburb of Rinkeby known as ‘Little

Mogadishu’. They want you to believe this is not true, but it

is. A new police station being built in Rinkeby includes

bulletproof windows, walls reinforced with sheet metal and a

protection fence. It has been described as like a fortress or

military installation. This is in Sweden, I mean – Sweden. In

June 2017, Swedish police added eight more areas to the list

of those ‘especially vulnerable’ bringing the total to 23.

More than 50 are designated ‘vulnerable’ which are areas

with high crime where police face ‘unique challenges’,

where there may be violent religious extremism and where

people don’t report crime for fear of retribution. This is in

‘free’ and ‘liberal’ Sweden today and the plan has always

been to make this happen right across Europe in a colossal

exercise in divide and rule. Gordon Grattidge, head of

Sweden’s Ambulance Union, said there are about 50 mainly

immigrant areas that are dangerous to enter and especially

so with five to ten ‘no-go zones’ for ambulance crews. They

only entered them with a police escort, wore helmets and

body armour and used reinforced ambulances. These are

some of the locations where police have been pelted with

stones and patrol cars set on fire. Grattidge said the

migrants had their own structure and community ‘parallel to

ours’ and ambulance crews ‘don’t feel welcome, that’s for

sure’. Then there is the gang culture and inter-gang

violence. Swedish National Police Commissioner Dan

Eliasson told a press conference that at least 5,000

criminals in about 200 networks were operating in the now

61 ‘no-go zones’ and his message to the government was

‘help us, help us’. Eliasson said that if the trend continued

they would not be able to cope. One report claimed that 80

percent of Swedish police officers are considering leaving

the force because of the conditions they now face. Amir

Rostami, a former police superintendent specialising in

organised crime and gangs said: ‘Today, the gang

environment is – well, I don’t want to exactly call it the Wild

West, but something in that direction.’ The same is

happening in the US with the MS-13 gang network and

Germany with Middle Eastern crime syndicates engaging

with virtual impunity in racketeering, extortion, money

laundering, prostitution and drugs, arms and human

trafficking. They control large areas of German cities and

towns with the Die Welt newspaper reporting that about a

dozen Lebanese clans control organised crime in the

German capital, Berlin. A judge in Hanover passed only

suspended sentences on six members of a Kurdish clan who

badly wounded 24 police officers and six paramedics.

German police were shocked at this ridiculous sentence and

rumours circulated that the judge was in fear of reprisals

against his family. Such rumours are not surprising when the

judge did a deal with the accused that meant police officers

did not give evidence against them. If the police rank and

file were allowed to speak out the shocking truth would be

revealed of what is happening and that’s why they are told

to keep quiet. Some officers have spoken out anyway. Peter

Springare, a Swedish police investigator in the serious

crimes squad for 47 years, took to Facebook to express his

frustration:

Here we go; this is what I’ve handled from Monday-Friday

this week: rape, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, rape-

assault and rape, extortion, blackmail, assault, violence

against police, threats to police, drug crime, drugs, crime,

felony, attempted murder, rape again, extortion again and

ill-treatment ...

... Suspected perpetrators; Ali Mohammed, Mahmod,

Mohammed, Mohammed Ali, again, again, again.

Christopher... what, is it true? Yes, a Swedish name snuck

in on the edges of a drug crime. Mohammed, Mahmod Ali,

again and again ...

... Countries representing all the crimes this week: Iraq,

Iraq, Turkey, Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia, Somalia, Syria

again, Somalia, unknown, unknown country, Sweden. Half

of the suspects, we can’t be sure because they don’t have

any valid papers. Which in itself usually means that

they’re lying about their nationality and identity.

Springare’s post was met with a mixture of wild support

and the usual condemnation of racism, but as always the

‘progressive’ condemners refuse to address the key

question: Is what he said true? They don’t want to go there

because to do so is to burst their bubble of self-delusion.

They have an inability or desire to look at every individual

on their merits in and of themselves irrespective of colour,

creed and background. Their minds can think only in groups

(the new version of ‘group think’) as in all migrants are good

and all white people who complain are racists and bigots. In

reality, they are the racists and bigots. German police

woman Tania Kambouri, an immigrant from Greece, said

that it ‘cannot be that [migrant] offenders continue to fill

the police files, hurt us physically ... and there are no

consequences. ... We are losing control of the streets.’ She

added: ‘Whoever tells the truth in this matter is quickly put

in the Nazi corner.’ Sex offences committed by migrants in

Germany have nearly doubled to more than 3,000 in a

single year according to official figures rising from 1,683 in

2015 to 3,404 in 2016 and that is only what is officially

recorded. But you’ll be a racist if you point this out. Those

who are attacked? They don’t matter, right? There are many

cases of totally inadequate sentences, even acquittals, for

migrant men guilty of rape on the grounds of ‘cultural

differences and misunderstanding’? An Austrian judge

overturned a conviction by a migrant for brutally raping a

10-year-old boy and ordered a retrial because the first court

should have established whether the attacker thought his

target had consented. What a 10-year-old boy? The Austrian

town of Tulln refused to accept any more migrants after a

15-year-old girl was violently raped by multiple men and a

28-year-old Hungarian woman told a German court that she

was raped nine times by Ethiopian asylum seekers while

they filmed what happened on her mobile phone after she

was ambushed at a town fair. Where are their ‘human

rights’, feminist progressives? A 13-year-old girl raped

continually by a British Muslim gang said she was told

‘numerous times’ by police and social workers not to

mention the ethnicity of her attackers. ‘I knew I wasn’t

racist, but I felt like that was used as a way to silence me’,

she told a radio interviewer. ‘ ... As soon as I said the names,

I was made to feel as though I was racist and I was the one

who had the problem.’ When a 14-year-old child bride from

Syria moved to Sweden and became pregnant with her

husband he was taken to court by social services, but the

judge said it was not a problem because she appeared

‘mature’ and it was their religion and culture. Had this

involved a native Swede a big jail sentence would have

followed for paedophilia and so the resentment builds and

builds until it eventually blows – which is what the El-lite

want to instigate to divide and rule and justify more police

states.

Trigger warning – shades of grey zone

Are all migrants rapists and criminals? No, of course not.

The great majority just want to live their lives in peace. But

are some of them? Of course, yes. It is these that the

authorities and progressives don’t want to face or allow you

to highlight or hear about and this is the source of

resentment and frustration that builds up in the indigenous

population, expresses itself through political parties making

these same points and associates in the minds of many all

immigrants with the criminals and rapists. Show me any

racial or cultural group and I’ll show you nice people, okay

people and seriously unpleasant people, but we are

supposed to ignore this obvious fact when it comes to mass

immigration. In my travels around the world in the last 30

years I have seen that it is not the colour or religion that

matters it is a person’s level of consciousness and how

much they are connected with their heart. They are not nice

Muslims or violent Muslims or nice Christians, violent

Christians, Jews and Hindus. They are states of awareness

expressing themselves through their particular body-type

and faith. A violent Muslim would likely be a violent

Christian if they occupied a different body and came from a

different background. Give a psychopath another body but

the same mind and what would they be? A psychopath. I

look for states of consciousness in the knowledge that when

all else is stripped away this is what we all are. Progressives

see only the body. They are obsessed with race and gender

and when you are so body-centric you must live in a state of

ongoing myopia and ignore, even condemn, what is patently

obvious to anyone with expanded levels of consciousness.

How could there not be problems when you are introducing

en masse a completely different culture with very different

attitudes to freedom and women which includes those that

are determined to impose their belief system, culture,

religion and laws wherever they go? We must not be

intimated into silence by progressive tyrants because these

things need saying, acknowledging and addressing.

Migrants who think they have the right to make their

culture and religion the dominant one in countries that have

had the compassion and decency to take them in also need

to have some humility and respect for the beliefs and

culture of others and understanding for how they feel. They

might find they and their culture are treated the same far

more often in return. Russia Today or RT in the UK often

wheel out a guy from something called the Ramadhan

Foundation when there is a contentious story involving

Islam. Whenever I have seen him he has hurled the labels

‘racist’ and ‘bigot’ at anyone with a different view who are

making points they have every right to make about the

impact of Islam on their communities. He is another

arrogant who is causing what he claims to oppose by in my

experience always justifying the Islamic position no matter

what the situation, as a carbon copy of what you see with

apologists for Zionism no matter what is done in its name.

There is again no empathy for how others feel, only abuse,

and he stokes the very frustration and anger that he then

complains about. I saw an interview in which he commented

on a story that Christians in Spain were outraged by dozens

of Muslims praying together in Jardines del Triunfo (Gardens

of Triumph) Park at the site of a Virgin Mary statue in

Granada. I can be neutral between religions and races

because I think all religion is an extreme form of perception

control and that to self-identify with a body of whatever

shade rather than with the infinite awareness that we all are

is perceptual myopia. This perspective sets you free from

today’s ubiquitous identity politics when the motivation is

not to look dispassionately and empathetically at any

situation in search of what is fair and just, but to pursue only

what suits your identity and to defend that identity no

matter what the circumstances. If we take this neutral

perspective with regard to Granada the sight of dozens of

Muslims praying (in Mecca mode) at a revered Christian

statue reinforces the fears of local Christians that their

culture is being taken over. Whether that is true or not is

irrelevant. Muslims praying at a Christian site will make

them feel like that and so purely in terms of empathy that

was not a respectful move and the same goes for the local

authority which gave its blessing to this. I don’t care where

people pray or who they pray to as long as they don’t

impose their belief on anyone else; but empathy is about

respecting the feelings of others not your own. I don’t mean

to take on their feelings, but to be aware of them and

acknowledge them. Our man from the Ramadhan

Foundation appears not to understand this concept and out

came the racist card towards his fellow interviewee voicing

another view. When asked if Catholics would be allowed to

pray to their god in a mosque he refused to answer and

that’s the whole basis of what I am saying here. Either what

is good for one is good for all or we have religious and racial

bias that is going to stoke the fires whichever side that bias

may fall.

What we need are fair and balanced Muslims like Nazir

Afzal, a prosecutor in the child sex scandal in Rochdale,

Greater Manchester, in which twelve predominantly British

Pakistani men were convicted of sex trafficking, rape and

conspiracy to engage in sexual activity with a child. The

case involved nearly 50 mainly white British girls. Police

failed to investigate reports of the systematic abuse for fear

of being politically incorrect given the perpetrators were

Pakistani Muslims and the girls mostly white British. Labour

MP Ann Cryer told a BBC documentary said that police and

social services had been ‘begged’ to act but they wouldn’t

touch the case. ‘I think it was they were afraid of being

called racist’, she said. Are you listening progressives? This

is what happens when you create a climate of fear over

doing anything to upset your untouchables. Never mind

what the girls were suffering month after month. Cryer said

she approached a friend, a local Muslim councillor, to ask

the Muslim ‘elders’ to take action but they didn’t want to

know. This is the point made bravely and strongly by Nazir

Afzal, the first Muslim Chief Crown Prosecutor for North West

England, who has campaigned for Muslim women’s rights

and against forced marriage, female genital mutilation and

so-called ‘honour killings’ or ‘shame killings’. These are

when a family member is murdered for the ‘crime’ of

allegedly bringing shame on the family because they have

disobeyed the rules of their community or religion by not

accepting an arranged marriage, having a relationship not

approved by the family, having sex outside of marriage,

being a victim of rape, dressing ‘inappropriately’, having

non-heterosexual relations or renouncing their faith. Now

just let me get my frickin’ head around this. PC progressives

create an intimidating environment for those – even victims

of rape – to expose what is happening because the

perpetrators are Muslim when extremists in the Muslim faith

treat women like slaves, force them into unwanted

marriages, mutilate their genitals and kill them if they want

to live their lives differently from the rest of their insane

family. But don’t progressives claim to stand for women’s

rights? WTF? I say again WTF? Nazir Afzal said that Muslim

communities where child abuse is rife were ‘remaining silent

about the prehistoric attitudes fuelling this crime’. There

were parts of Britain where violent misogyny is accepted

and even celebrated and these were largely Asian areas

‘with little appetite in the community to do anything about

it’. Afzal said there was no escaping the fact that Asian and

Pakistani men were disproportionately involved in localised

street grooming of vulnerable young girls. ‘Our jails are

filling up with Muslim prisoners and yet the crimes they’re

committing have become a taboo subject.’ He said that

trying to get Muslim audiences to address the issue was

frustratingly difficult. They were only interested in talking

about hate crime and Islamophobia (identity politics, me,

me, me) without mention of Muslim prisoners and child

grooming:

Such incidents are not uncommon and when you do

manage to generate discussion around abuse, the

response can be terrifying. Too many people blame the

victims rather than the perpetrators. ‘It’s bad they got

caught’ is a common view.

Afzal said that after speaking at one conference he spoke

to an Asian man who said that his son had recently been

jailed for dealing crack cocaine, but his anger had been

focused only on his daughter because her marriage to an

Asian husband of her own choice ‘had brought great shame

on the family’. Afzal told him the only person who had

behaved shamefully was the father’s son (and the father, I

would add). He said there was great work being done by

some groups in the Muslim community to challenge the

abuse of women but without support of the wider

community whose leaders prefer such matters to be

ignored. Afzal recalled that when he praised a women’s

group ‘run by incredible teachers who give up their time to

mentor boys and girls on the dangers of child sexual abuse,

forced marriage and radicalisation’ it was a white

businessman who came forward to donate money and not

the local Muslim community. He described how members of

a women’s group in Wales keep having their tyres slashed

because Muslim men do not want women protecting other

women. Are you listening progressives? Afzal continued:

It sickens me that there are people in the Asian

community who don’t want women to be empowered,

they don’t want women to support each other and would

prefer women to be oppressed and do what men want

them to do. Forcing the Muslim community to do more to

deal with these problems has to be the starting point to

drive grooming gangs out of existence.

Challenging misogyny in schools, calling out shameful

attitudes towards women and making sure elected

councillors who give character references to rapists, as

was the case in Rochdale, are on the front pages of their

local newspapers should be standard practice.

Nazir Afzal said if action is not taken now we were facing

‘a

social

time-bomb

that

will

have

devastating

consequences for policing’. He said that child grooming

offences had increased five-fold in Manchester alone in the

year to 2017 and nationally police were becoming

overwhelmed. The problem is massive and mirrors the

Muslim gangs in other European countries. Another child

abuse scandal involving predominantly British Pakistani men

in Rotherham in the north of England involved 1,400

children, most of them girls between 12 and 16. There were

pregnancies, terminations, miscarriages, babies seized from

mothers and it emerged that the police and local council

knew about this for ten years and did nothing. Taxi drivers

would arrive and take children for sex from council care

homes and schools. They were gang-raped, faced threats to

rape their mothers and younger sisters, trafficked to other

towns and doused with petrol while being threatened to set

them on fire. These were children. Reasons given for the

failure to prosecute horrendous crimes the authorities knew

were happening include fears that the religion and race of

the psychopaths involved could cause allegations of racism

and ‘damage community relations’, and the concern of the

local Labour Party-controlled council that upsetting the

Muslim community who mostly voted Labour would cost

them support at elections. The Labour Party claims to be the

defender of the working class, but they treat their traditional

white voters, and in this case white working class kids, with

absolute contempt. Don’t give me any crap about Jeremy

Corbyn’s Labour Party being different. On these issues I

don’t believe it. The experience in Rotherham was the

experience long before in Leicester. Once ethnic minorities

decide elections any claims to equal treatment across the

entire community are over. The number of Asian sex-abuse,

rape and child-trafficking gangs in the UK continue to come

to light with 17 men and one woman convicted of rape,

sexual assault, human trafficking and inciting prostitution in

Newcastle in 2017 with more than a hundred girls involved.

The psychopathic perpetrators were from the Bangladeshi,

Pakistani, Indian, Iraqi, Iranian and Turkish communities.

One of them told a female ticket collector: ‘All white women

are good for one thing, for men like me to fuck and use as

trash, that is all women like you are worth.’ How very

progressive. Sarah Champion, Labour Party Shadow

Women’s Minister said political correctness of the ‘floppy

Left’ was leaving many too terrified of speaking out against

the abuse: ‘We’ve got now hundreds of men, Pakistani men,

who have been convicted of this crime – why are we not

commissioning research to see what’s going on and how we

need to change what’s going on so it never happens again?’

Why? Because the El-lite want this to happen, that’s why.

The National Crime Agency said the enormous scale of

modern slavery and human trafficking in the UK meant that

‘every large town and city in the country’ was affected.

When I look at Rotherham, Rochdale, Newcastle and others,

and what is happening across Europe, self-obsessed

progressives have so much to answer for – not least to the

girls and women they so wrongly claim to support.

Time to grow up

I have a simple philosophy to end all racism and all the

reverse-racism cover-ups of the consequences of mass

migration. Let us form our opinions with regard to everyone

by the criteria of what they do and what they say and not by

what they look like, where they come from or the god they

believe in or don’t. How about that? It is a novel idea, I

know, that we actually treat everyone the same. Who could

argue with that? Well, the reverse-racist authorities and

progressives can for a start. Treating everyone the same

must not be allowed because there is an agenda here in

which the migrants and the indigenous population of Europe

are both pawns. A bigger ratio of migrants committing crime

and sexual assaults in some countries would spoil the

narrative and so those facts must be suppressed. Equality is

not what this is all about but it is the only way that it is

going to be resolved. Migrants and not just the indigenous

population need to look in the mirror and have some self-

reflection. Those migrants that seek to Islamise the

countries where they settle, replace the indigenous culture

and disrespect women are going to face gathering anger

and resentment, which is what the El-lite are planning on in

a violence-fest of divide and rule. I would be saying the

same the other way round if the West sought to Christianise

the Islamic world like it once did.

Remember the fantastic way that people of all races,

religions and backgrounds came together in mutual support,

respect and grief in the wake of the shocking fire at the

London tower block in June 2017 which killed and injured so

many. Who cared then about someone’s religion or race?

They were just people in different coloured skins and with

different beliefs facing the same nightmare. Everything else

became irrelevant. This happens because mutual tragedy

brings home what really matters and it isn’t race or religion

and all the fault-lines that are used to divide us. What



matters is to love each other, care for and respect each

other. Everything else is illusion. We need this mutual

respect – and I mean mutual – and expanded perspective if

the El-lite racial and religious agenda is to be thwarted. If

this doesn’t happen, white, black, brown, Christian, Muslim,

Jew and Hindu will all be enslaved by enslaving each other.

Manipulation of emotion

F igure 5 1 7 : The image of Omran Daqneesh was used to demonise

the Assad

government but the mainstream media did not say that his family

support Assad

or that the picture was taken by a White Helmet connected to vicious

and

merciless terrorists.

The Swedish experience can increasingly be seen

throughout much of Europe in major countries like Germany

and France. El-lite place-people in the recurring mould of

Merkel and Macron from the blueprint of Blair all support

further mass immigration for all the reasons I am describing

here. The moment when the flow of people along the

migration routes through Greece and the Balkans to Europe

really exploded can be tracked back to the tragic death of

Aylan Kurdi, a three-year-old Kurdish Syrian boy who was

drowned in September 2015 when his family was seeking to

cross the Mediterranean to Europe and then head for

Canada. Archontic El-lite software does not have the

capacity for empathy and compassion, but they know that

humans do and they manipulate that mercilessly and

constantly to get their way. Emotion is a major access point

to thought and perception and advertisers are exploiting

this all the time to present products in an emotional setting

which is often nothing to do with the product itself.

Triggering emotion can be mightily effective in shaping

perception and gleaning the desired response. Syrian boy

Omran Daqneesh was used as an image to demonise the

Assad regime when his shocked, bewildered, blood and

dust-covered face was transmitted around the world after

alleged Syrian/Russian airstrikes in Aleppo in 2016 (Fig 517).

This was very powerful in manipulating emotion and,

through that, perception. But the image was taken by a

White Helmet photographer connected to some of the worst

of Islamic terrorists and Omran’s father was an Assad

supporter and remains so today. He said he heard no planes

overhead as reported before the explosion and accused

‘rebels’ (terrorists) of exploiting his son for anti-Assad

propaganda. He said he was offered money to do two

interviews attacking Assad. The same technique was used

to sickeningly exploit little Aylan Kurdi for the mass-

migration agenda. So many children have been killed fleeing

El-lite-created wars in Libya and Syria, but Aylan Kurdi was

the one they chose to exploit to take mass migration into

Europe onto a whole new level (Fig 518 overleaf). Who could

not have been deeply moved by the sight of the little boy

lying dead and alone on that Turkish beach? The picture



went around the world and triggered (triggered) a surging

wave of sympathy for those trying to escape war in the

Middle East. Chancellor Merkel in Germany rode that wave

by opening the borders to virtually anyone. They didn’t need

to be coming from Syria, even Libya, just anyone come. And

they did so in enormous numbers. Germans clapped them

off the trains when they first arrived with signs saying

‘welcome’ because to them in their manipulated emotional

state everyone stepping onto the platforms was Aylan Kurdi.

But they weren’t. Some were fleeing war and were rightly

supported, but most were exploiting that emotional wave

which began with a little boy lying on a beach. Merkel was

Time magazine’s Person of the Year because as a 100

percent-owned asset of the El-ite and the Web she was

doing her job. Soon Germans began to see that the scale of

arrivals was unsustainable for all the reasons experienced in

Sweden and they questioned how Merkel could be so crazy

as to just open the doors to anyone no matter what their

background and circumstances. Well, I’ve explained why.

The agenda demanded it and as one writer said: ‘European

countries, such as Sweden and Germany, have practically

mutilated their own cultures to appease the new arrivals.’

Merkel has warned Britain that if open borders with the EU

are not continued after Brexit there will be ‘a price to pay’

and this, too, is connected to the El-lite Sabbatean-Frankism

immigration agenda. The EU open border policy has from

the start been related to the plan for the dilution and

destruction of distinct European cultures.

F igure 5 1 8 : The image of Aylan Kurdi that shocked the world and

triggered a

tidal wave of emotion that was exploited by the El-lite to achieve its

cold and

calculated ends.

Organised ‘crisis’

Web-controlled non-governmental agencies (NGOs) and

other organisations are working at the other end of the

migrant routes to ensure that more and more people are

sent on their journey into Europe while Rome Mayor Virginia

Raggi says: ‘I find it impossible, as well as risky, to think up

further accommodation structures.’ She is not alone in her

plea based on simple mathematics, but Zionist George

Soros and his NGO mob couldn’t give a rat’s arse. Italy is

reported to be spending 4.2 billion euros a year on dealing

with migration compared with 1.9 billion on pensions and

4.5 billion on a national housing plan. That figure is

unsustainable as it continues to grow year on year as

migrant numbers go on increasing. Progressives want

unrestrained immigration while at the same time they

condemn governments for not building enough affordable

housing and creating enough jobs. They cannot in their La

La Land self-delusion put those two things together and see

that if the population keeps growing through immigration

and incomer birth-rates there will never be enough jobs,

affordable housing and adequate health care because

demand will always be constantly outstripping supply. This

is especially so with automation and robots sucking up jobs

at an ever-increasing rate. We see the same principle with

building more and bigger roads only for car use to increase

which then demands still more and bigger roads.

Progressives don’t want to acknowledge these simple facts

because they would have to maturely face reality instead of

spewing platitudes and slogans in search of virtue signals –

‘Look at me, see how politically correct and caring I am’.

Figures released by the Office for National Statistics

revealed that Britain’s population increased by more than

half a million in 2016 in the biggest ever peacetime rise in a

single year. Immigration watchdogs warned of further

pressure on housing, transport, public services like

healthcare and the lower paid competing for jobs. But don’t

tell the Provisional Progressives because they don’t do

maths, and don’t tell the progressive political parties who

increasing rely on the migrant vote for electoral support.

Spain is being increasingly affected as a new route opens up

between the North African coast and the 250-mile

Andalusian coastline in southern Spain across the Alboran

Sea, which is a major tourist region in the western end of

the Mediterranean. At one point only 8.9 miles or 14.3

kilometres of water separate Morocco and Spain across the

Strait of Gibraltar. Thousands of migrants are starting to

head into Europe this way. Javier Pajaron, security

correspondent of regional newspaper Voice Of Almeria, said:

Without doubt, most are economic migrants and not

refugees. They are looking for a better life. Many never

get deported, but just disappear into the black economy.

Merciless people-traffickers only have to ensure their

pathetic vessels reach international waters 12 miles off the

North African coast and EU rules say that Spain must then

help them because they are the closest country. Many

migrants become slaves to the people traffickers who

operate in Africa and Europe and stay in touch by mobile

phone and social media with those who owe them money

for the sea journey. They threaten to harm family members

at home if they are not paid and the debts can take years to

pay off. Charity worker Juan Mirelles said: ‘They arrive

penniless, so they have to earn money to refund the fare to

traffickers and to avoid starving.’ Others in places like Sicily

are forced into selling drugs and their bodies for the Mafia

who work with Nigerian terror gangs like the ‘Black Axe’ and

‘Vikings’ who use machetes on migrants that refuse their

orders. An estimated 30,000 Nigerian women have been

trafficked between Nigerian gangs and the Mafia to work as

prostitutes in Italy and elsewhere in Europe. But, hey, keep

the migrants coming, right progressives? If only to make you

feel good about yourselves and allow great virtue signalling.

Jose Antonio Alcarez, spokesman for the Spanish Police

Federation, warned:

We have a huge problem. We just can’t deal with the

migrant numbers. If we don’t get more police to help, we

will not be able to control the streets ...

This will eventually destroy the tourist trade at southern

Spanish resorts and the livelihoods of those who live there.

There are two sides to every story, but progressives want to

see only one. ISIS is reported to be increasingly involved in

people trafficking and has urged jihadists to seize control of

Spain. An ISIS video claimed that Spain is the land of Muslim

forefathers and ‘we are going to take it back with the power

of Allah’. This is the plan throughout Europe for ISIS and

those who created and control them in the West. All they

have to do is ensure that war, violence, mayhem and

depravation continue in the Middle East and Africa and they

know the flow of people will never cease. If any of that is

racist then the truth is racist but since when did the truth

matter to Provisional Progressives? A report by the UN

Refugee Agency confirmed that seven out of ten migrants

crossing the Mediterranean into Europe were not fleeing war

or in need of protection but seeking to relocate for economic

reasons. The report said that many had headed to Libya

from other African countries looking for work, but had found

‘life-threatening insecurity, instability, difficult economic

conditions, plus widespread exploitation and abuse’ – all of

which followed the removing and killing of Colonel Gaddafi

by Western government psychopaths (Obama, Cameron,

Hollande, NATO) because that was part of a longer-term

plan that we are now witnessing. Gaddafi warned the West

that without him in Libya Europe could ‘turn black’. He said

prophetically on a state visit to Italy in 2010 that Europe

would otherwise be ‘another Africa’ with the ‘advance of

millions of immigrants’:

Tomorrow Europe might no longer be European and even

black as there are millions who want to come in. We don’t

know if Europe will remain an advanced and united

continent or if it will be destroyed, as happened with the

barbarian invasions.

They killed him on a lie and what he predicted is now

happening. So-called NGOs are a prime vehicle for George

Soros-type manipulation and take the form of charities and

self-appointed agencies that claim to be campaigning for

‘humanitarianism’, ‘human rights’ and ‘democracy’. But

under that outward veneer many have a very different

agenda funded by the usual suspects, most especially

George Soros. Italian Foreign Minister Angelino Alfano said

that he ‘agreed 100 percent’ with claims by Sicilian

prosecutor Carmelo Zuccaro that ‘migrant rescue charities’

were working with people traffickers in Libya. Zuccaro said

that wiretapped conversations proved that NGOs are

conspiring with human smugglers to flood Italy with

migrants and ‘destabilise’ their economy. Fabrice Leggeri,

head of Frontex, the European border agency, said

something similar in an interview with German newspaper

Die Welt. A Frontex report said that migrant traffickers were

given ‘clear indications before departure on the precise

direction to be followed in order to reach the NGOs’ boats’.

NGOs and charities then claim to have ‘rescued’ migrants

when they were actually abetting illegal immigration. This

was making accurate processing very difficult and putting

lives at risk by encouraging traffickers to ‘put even more

migrants onto unseaworthy boats with little water and fuel’

knowing the NGO boats are waiting at sea. Italian senator

Lucio Malan said relief organisations rescuing migrants from

the Mediterranean are operating in effect a ferry service

which is ‘enriching’ people traffickers. He said the flow of

migrants was so regular that it was not a rescue operation

but ‘public transport’. A senior Libyan coastguard official

told the media that ‘refugee charities’ were paying people-

smuggling gangs to ferry migrants in unseaworthy craft to

their rescue boats waiting off Libya. Colonel Tarek Shanboor

said he could prove this after securing bank and phone

records and he also claimed that he had been given

evidence of collusion between the charities and traffickers

and EU border security in Brussels. This all supports the

theme from multiple sources that the migrant crisis is being

systematically manufactured. Colonel Shanboor said that

aid agencies (NGOs) were encouraging ever more migrants

to head for Europe across the Mediterranean. IsraAID is an

umbrella group partnered with Rothschild-created B’nai

B’rith (Sons of the Covenant) of Israeli search and rescue,

medical and relief agencies, which has located its people on

the Greek island of Lesbos to meet migrants and get them

to camps for the paperwork that allows them to continue

into northern Europe. Why aren’t they in Gaza and Israel

helping Palestinians and African immigrants much closer to

home? Gearó id Ó Colmá in, a Paris-based Irish journalist,

wrote the following in an article titled ‘Coercive Engineered

Migration: Zionism’s War on Europe’:

The debate about what should be done to manage the

refugee/migrant crisis turns on whether or not they should

be welcomed into European countries. However, this pro

or anti migrant debate masks a new and highly

destructive phase in US/NATO geopolitical strategy. Many

of the migrants at the Hungarian border are coming from

refugee camps in Turkey.

Austrian intelligence has reportedly revealed that US

government agencies are funding the transfer of these

refugees to Europe in an attempt to destabilize the

continent. This new geostrategic initiative involves using

desperate refugees as weapons for the purposes of

US/Zionist divide and rule of the European continent.

The United States, Israel and others are only conduits and

vehicles for the Web which is orchestrating all of this. The

‘others’ include the European Union which is seeking to

enforce migrant quotas on its subordinate states and this

was the plan going back at least to Count of Coudenhove-

Kalergi, better known as Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi

(1894-1972). He was a major conspirator in the creation of

what became the EU. I have detailed the background in

other books of this Austrian-Japanese manipulator who was

the founding president of the Pan-Europa (European Union)

movement for almost 50 years. He and his network

prepared the ground for the emergence of the EU thanks to

major funding from Zionist bankers that included Baron

Louis de Rothschild and Max Warburg. Kalergi foresaw not

only the EU as it has become with the deletion of national

sovereignty, but also a new ‘Eurasian-Negroid’ mixed race

to replace those of today. The ‘natural rulers’ over this race

he said were European Jewry which he referred to as the

‘spiritual nobility of Europe’. Zionist former French President

Nicolas Sarkozy said in 2008 that Europe faced a challenge

of racial mixed breeding that was ‘not a choice but an

obligation’ of white Europeans and if it wasn’t done willingly

the state would have to introduce ‘more coercive measures’.

He said:

The goal is to meet the challenge of racial interbreeding.

The challenge of racial interbreeding that faces us in the

21st Century. It’s not a choice, it’s an obligation. It’s

imperative. We cannot do otherwise. We risk finding

ourselves confronted with major problems.

We must change; therefore we will change. We are going

to change all at the same time. In business, in

administration, in education, in the political parties. And

we will obligate ourselves as to results. If this

volunteerism does not work for the Republic, then the

State will move to still more coercive measures.

Have no doubt that Rothschild banker Emmanuel Macron,

supported in his election by Sarkozy, is on the same team

with the same script. Israeli rabbi Baruch Efrati was quite

open about it, as reported by the Ynet News service. Efrati

was most enthusiastic about the Islamisation of Europe and

said that Jews should ‘rejoice at the fact that Christian

Europe is losing its identity as a punishment for what it did

to us for the hundreds of years [we] were in exile there’. He

added that ‘Europe is losing its identity in favour of another

people and another religion, and there will be no remnants

and survivors from the impurity of Christianity’ which, like

Europe, should be totally destroyed: ‘So I ask you: is it good

news that Islam invades Europe? It’s excellent news!’ I write

this chapter as someone who believes that identity with

race – whoever it is – has lost the plot in terms of

understand reality. Remember the sugar cube quote?

Identity with race as a self-identity is an illusion, but the

point is that it’s not what I think and do that matters in all

this; it is what the El-ite think and do. Talking of which ...

surprise, surprise, Georgie’s back.

Soros is everywhere

Zionist George Soros is one of the leading proponents and

supporters of mass immigration into Europe and the United

States. A memo by his Open Society ‘people’s

revolution’/‘Arab Spring’ Foundations was headed ‘Migration

Governance and Enforcement Portfolio Review’ and brags

about its success in influencing global immigration policy.

The memo says that the European migrant crisis offers ‘new

opportunities’ for further influence ‘coordination and

collaboration’ with other wealthy donors and making the

situation (mass immigration) the ‘new normal and moving

beyond the need to react’. The memo was authored by

program officer Anna Crowley and program specialist Katin

Rosin on May 12th, 2016, and says that ‘we should also be

supporting actors in the field proactively seeking to change

the policies, rules, and regulations that govern migration’.

They describe how they have ‘to be selective and

opportunistic, particularly at the global level, in supporting

leaders in the field to push thinking on migration’ and better

coordinate advocacy and reform efforts. ‘We have supported

initiatives, organizations, and networks whose work ties

directly to our aims in the corridors.’ This is the same Soros

manipulation arm that funds so many ‘progressive’ and left-

wing causes that campaign to delete immigration controls

and label anyone who protests as a racist and bigot. The

memo indeed stresses the need to fight back against

‘growing intolerance toward migrants’. You get the picture.

Soros has called for a million migrants a year to be allowed

into Europe and mass immigration into the United States.

His mansions are obviously full. Among the organisations

with which the Soros network claims connections is the

Migration Policy Institute (MPI) which the memo notes is a

major advocate for an amnesty on illegal immigrants in the

United States. A Soros-partnered organisation was exposed

by local TV anchor Chris Berg over a plan to flood the city of

Fargo, North Dakota, and 19 other cities with migrants.

Partnership for a New American Economy campaigns for an

open immigration policy and is run by, among others,

Zionist former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and

Zionism/Israel fanatic Fox News owner Rupert Murdoch, and

itself partners with Welcome America, a pro-open borders

operation funded by George Soros. They agree that

‘partnership members understand that immigration is

essential to maintaining the productive, diverse and flexible

workforce that America needs to ensure prosperity over the

coming generations.’ (See Tony Blair and the Labour Party in

the UK which said the same while planning immigration on a

scale that would ‘change Britain’s cultural make-up

forever’). The 19 US cities in question were given ‘Gateway

for Growth’ awards to be spent on educating the public on

expanded immigration. New American Economy’s website

appears to be obsessed with the effect of immigration on

deciding US elections and points out that by 2020 some

25.6 million Hispanic and Asian voters could join the US

electorate and how they vote will depend on ‘each party’s

success at earning their support’:

Candidates who take positions that cast them as anti-

immigration will start the general election at a 24-point

disadvantage among likely voters and at an even greater

disadvantage among key electoral groups, such as

college-educated white women and young voters.

Only about 1 in 5 GOP primary voters is an anti-

immigration voter. This small pool of the electorate

comprises hardline voters who are virtually unwinnable for

any mainstream candidate. However, candidates can have

success with both Hispanic and immigrant voters, as

studies show that, if the immigration issue were off the

table, many of these voters would be up for grabs.

So anyone running for political office – be warned. The

game is so transparent. Once you reach the point where the

migrant vote decides elections that’s the end of any vestige

of government for all the people – not that this has ever

existed in totality but I mean in terms of anything at all. The

pawns being primarily used in the United States to

transform the country’s demographic are Hispanics

(Spanish-speaking) and Latinos (anyone from Latin

America), hence Hispanics are highlighted by that El-lite

front organisation, the New American Economy. There is a

phony argument going on about Muslims being allowed to

settle in America, but that is a smokescreen. There is far too

much distance and ocean between the centre of the Muslim

world and the United States for them to be used as migrant

pawns in the way they are in Europe. But Central and South

America is just across the US border and Hispanics and

Latinos in this case are being exploited to advance the El-

lite plan of targeting the white races. In Australia, they are

using immigration from China and Asia in general. It is not

the nature of the migrant that matters so much to the El-lite

and their Archontic Reptilian masters but simply the

numbers. It is absolutely vital that all people of all races and

backgrounds realise that they are all being manipulated to a

common global end that is bad for all of them. We are in this

together and that is why the El-lite work tirelessly to keep us

apart, divided and ruled. Instead of seeing the big picture

the representatives (or those that claim to be) of different

racial and religious groups feel the need to defend their own

corner no matter what the circumstances. I mentioned the

bloke from the UK Ramadhan Foundation with regard to this

and I saw an interview on American television with Jorge

Ramos, who is apparently the most famous Spanish

language news presenter in the US, and described as ‘The

Walter Cronkite of Latin America’. Ramos was being

questioned about the impact of Latinos settling in such

numbers in the US and he agreed there was a demographic

revolution happening. He said there were about 60 million

Latinos in the United States and in 35 years that would be

100 million or about one in three of the population. At the

same time he vehemently denied that this constituted an

invasion of the country. Ramos once again would not

concede any points on how this would affect the non-Latino

population or how it would make them feel. At the same

time a report by the University of New Hampshire revealed

that death rates of white people outstripped birth rates in

17 states in 2014 compared with four in 2004 and a study

by UK academic Professor Ted Cantle found that white

people were leaving British cities in large numbers and

heading towards minority status in major centres of

population. Some, like Leicester, are already there. I

remember watching a BBC documentary on the white

exodus from London’s East End in the face of another

culture taking over. Frankfurt has become a majority

migrant city and German ‘progressive’ Green Party politician

Stefanie von Berg said it was a ‘good thing’ that Germans

would become a minority in major cities:

Our city will change radically. I hold that in 20, 30 years

there will no longer be German majorities in our city and I

want to make it clear especially to those right wingers:

This is a good thing.

It would never occur to Ms Von Berg that speeches like

that are exactly what is fuelling the rise of the political right.

No compassion for how Germans feel, no acknowledging of

their concerns and fears. If you don’t agree with her you are

a racist. End of. Then there is this gem from German

progressive politician Gregor Gysi:

Every year more native Germans die than are born. That

is very fortunate. It’s because the Nazis are not very good

at having offspring. [The decline of Germans] is why they

are so dependent on immigration from foreign countries.

So every native German is a Nazi then? This is the

mentality displayed by Von Berg and Gysi which is taking

over the world, while Muslim Imam Sheikh Muhammad Ayed

from the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem tells his followers to

breed with European people and conquer their countries by

taking advantage of their lost fertility. He said in September

2015:

Europe has become old and decrepit, and needs human

reinforcement. No force is more powerful than the human

force of us Muslims ... Throughout Europe, all the hearts

are infused with hatred toward Muslims. They wish that

we were dead. But they have lost their fertility, so they

look for fertility in their midst. We will give them fertility!

We will breed children with them, because we shall

conquer their countries – whether you like it or not, oh

Germans, oh Americans, oh French, oh Italians, and all

those like you. Take the refugees! We shall soon collect

them in the name of the coming Caliphate. We will say to

you: These are our sons. Send them, or we will send our

armies to you.

But that is not racist, of course, in a Brave New World

where racism can only be white. I am not defending the

white race. I may be in a white body but my self-identity is

with consciousness not form. European races outrageously

invaded and seized the lands of Native Americans and so

many others across the Americas, Asia, Africa and

Australia/New Zealand through grotesque exploitation by

the European empires and especially the British. Colonialism

and slavery were an abomination and I still remember how

sickened I was as a kid when I first read about it. But we (a)

do not move forward by doing the same in reverse and (b)

we do not secure freedom for everybody unless we have the

maturity to ask why white races are currently being so

targeted and white males in particular are the prime targets

of political correctness. The answer affects everyone no

matter what their colour or creed. One other point that

should not be missed: El-lite bloodlines that were behind

European colonialism are the same bloodlines behind mass

immigration into Europe today. It’s just a different phase of

the same ongoing march to total global control. The

Jerusalem Imam is certainly right about European sperm

counts. Research published in 2017 assessed results from

nearly 200 studies involving 43,000 men and found that

sperm counts in predominantly white-race, Western-world

countries of North America, Europe, Australia, and New

Zealand, appear to have halved in less than 40 years. I’ll

explore some of the causes later, but lead researcher Dr

Hagai Levine, an epidemiologist who studies patterns of

activity, said the findings were ‘shocking’ and that humans

could become extinct if sperm counts continue to fall at

current rates. Levine, from the Hebrew University of

Jerusalem, found a 59.3% decline in total sperm count in

men from North America, Europe, Australia and New

Zealand, but in contrast the study found no significant



decline in South America, Asia and Africa. It will be

interesting to see if further studies find the same disparity.

Levine said there is an urgent need to find out why sperm

counts are decreasing and to reverse the trend. Western

birth rates have been falling for 30 years and in the same

period sperm counts have plummeted and fertility problems

have soared to the point where they have produced an

industry called fertility services which have increased by

four times in 25 years. Anyone think all this is ‘natural’? No,

me neither.

F igure 5 1 9 : His manipulation is so vast that it had to happen

eventually.

Soros has ‘values’ – god, my belly hurts ...

Hungary Prime Minister Viktor Orban has warned about the

creation of ‘parallel societies’ and is well aware of what

Hungarian-born George Soros and his networks are doing.

Orban’s government said Soros-funded organisations like

the Helsinki Committees of ‘Human Rights’ operating

throughout Europe, including Hungary and the Balkans, are

actively supporting illegal immigration (Fig 519). Hungary

Foreign Minister Pé ter Szijjá rtó talked of agencies seeking to

‘violate our border’ and said that Hungarian intelligence

reports name Soros as working in the background of these

organisations. Hungary’s ruling party even plastered

billboards of Soros around Budapest saying ‘Let’s not let

Soros have the last laugh’. Israel’s ambassador to Hungary,

Yossi Amrani, issued a foreign ministry-approved statement

asking the government to stop the billboard campaign

because the negative portrayal of Soros could stir up

antiSemitism, but soon afterwards a second statement was

released taking another tone:

In no way was the statement meant to delegitimize

criticism of George Soros, who continuously undermines

Israel’s democratically elected governments by funding

organizations that defame the Jewish state and seek to

deny it the right to defend itself.

A quick translation would read: ‘Oh, my god, we must not

let anyone see that Soros is working for us or the whole

house of cards could come down.’ I will answer the question

shortly of why Soros funds groups that criticise Israel.

Hungary Prime Minister Orban said that Soros was using the

EU to create a ‘new, mixed, Muslimized Europe’. This would

certainly connect with the long-term plans of Richard von

Coudenhove-Kalergi who played such a part in the

establishment of what became the EU and the gathering

evidence that EU agencies are working with people

traffickers and NGOs in the Mediterranean. Orban said: ‘The

European Union, the European Commission must regain

independence from the Soros Empire before the billionaire

finishes his programme for the destruction of the continent.’

He said of the migration crisis:

This invasion is driven, on the one hand, by people

smugglers, and on the other by those activists who

support everything that weakens the nation-state. This



Western mindset and this activist network is [typified] by

George Soros ... His name is perhaps the strongest

example of those who support anything that weakens

nation states, they support everything that changes the

traditional European lifestyle ...

F igure 5 2 0 : A question worth asking Soros-funded progressives?

Soros replied in an email statement to Bloomberg

Business saying that his foundations ‘uphold European

values’ while strengthening Hungarian borders ‘undermine

those values’. He later said that Hungary was a ‘Mafia state’

posing as a democracy and complained that he was being

portrayed as ‘a shady currency speculator who uses his

money to flood Europe with illegal immigrants as part of

some vague but nefarious plot.’ And? Your point is? Orban

described the Soros response as a declaration of war: ‘The

only network which operates in Mafia ways, which is not

transparent ... in Hungary is the Soros network.’ He accused

Soros of funding organisations that ‘are working to bring

hundreds of thousands of migrants into Europe’. Soros said

that ‘our plan treats the protection of refugees as the

objective and national borders as the obstacle’. George

Soros having the nerve to talk about ‘values’ really is a sight

to behold. This is the man who said: ‘I am basically there to

make money. I cannot and do not look at the social

consequences of what I do.’ I guess the ‘progressive’ groups

funded by Soros never get around to asking why the

billionaire who said that would want to give them wads of

cash (Fig 520). A ten-day protest in 2016 called Democracy

Spring brought together 100 ‘progressive’ groups in

Washington demanding an end to the ‘influence of money in

politics’. Dontcha love ‘em? Many of those very groups

received funding from billionaire Soros, a major funder of

Hillary Clinton and other Democrat politicians while his

Open Society and other networks were behind the Arab

Spring that set the Middle East ablaze with violence (and

triggered the flows of migrants into Europe supported by the

same Soros). A ‘progressive’ speaking on Fox News said that

Soros was motivated by the fact that he grew up in Nazi-

occupied Hungary and ‘that is why his entire life has been

dedicated to equality and justice’. She obviously missed the

quote about not looking at the social consequences of what

he does and the television interview in which he admitted

helping as a teenager to confiscate property of Hungarian

Jews persecuted by the Nazis and told the interviewer that

this was ‘not at all’ difficult. ‘Progressive’ U2 singer Bono

calls Soros ‘one of my great heroes’ as he does with

Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates who funds and promotes

vaccines,

GMO,

surveillance

technology,

education

programming, geoengineering of the atmosphere (weather

modification) and so much more on the El-lite agenda (Fig

521). Soros and many other ‘philanthropic billionaires’ that

fund the El-lite wish-list are supported by the Web in getting

fantastically rich, but the pay-back is that large parts of

their fortunes are spent to advance the El-lite cause through

what is promoted as ‘philanthropy’. It is anything but.

Rockefeller foundations and trusts led the way and so many

others have followed in the same mould. Soros gave $246

million to 100 groups behind another Washington protest

dubbed ‘Day Without A Woman’ to ‘spotlight gender

inequality’ and in truth to protest against Donald Trump

(divide and rule). It was funny how this march for women’s

rights did not bother to target the Saudi Arabian embassy.

Maybe their Sat-Nav wasn’t working. Soros even spends

millions

supporting

‘progressive’

district

attorney



candidates. He and his network are everywhere. Zionist

Vladimir Lenin said: ‘The best way to control the opposition

is to lead it ourselves.’ You can see this technique with the

Palestinian Authority headed by Netanyahu gofer Mahmoud

Abbas which is supposed to represent Palestinian interests

but ultimately answers to Israel. Watch Abbas support Israel

in targeting rival Palestinian group Hamas as per demand by

the US and Israel to King Salman of Saudi Arabia. It now

becomes obvious why Soros funds groups that criticise

Israel. In a spin on Lenin’s line ... ‘The best way to control

the opposition is to fund it ourselves.’

F igure 5 2 1 : Gates has an extraordinary record of funding projects

in line with

the agenda’s wish-list.

The other pillar of the mass immigration agenda is playing

the migrant population against the indigenous population in

a programme of violent divide and rule. Migrants

congregating in particular areas with a clearly identifiable

culture creates two distinct and easily discernible ‘sides’ and

the conflict is fuelled by political correctness, the frustration

that comes from silencing dissent and the perception that

all parts of the community are not treated equally. This is

further increased by seeing parallel societies emerging with

their own laws and enforcement. Then there is state-

sponsored ‘Islamic’ terrorism that fuels the fury more than

anything. The El-lite want to trigger civil wars and as usual

most of those who are hurt and affected will be the majority

in both communities that only want to live in peace and

harmony.

Headlines

tell

the

story

–

‘Surging

“Intercommunity Confrontations” in France Mean “Civil War

is Inevitable”’ and ‘Thousands take to the streets to protest

Germany’s immigration policy following week of bloody

violence’. They want a race war in the United States with

again Soros-funded progressive organisations behind ethnic

and political street protests. Soros, like Brzezinski, tells you

the plan when he predicts what he ‘thinks’ will happen. He

has predicted riots, a police state and civil war in America.

They want the slaves fighting the slaves to allow the slave

owners to rule over both of them.

Now, are we going to give them what they want? Or are

we going to see through the illusion of race and religion and

realise that we are all one consciousness having different

experiences? If we don’t see beyond the illusion and go on

believing in racial and religious superiority when one

person’s beliefs must be forced upon everyone else then

what is ahead looks very bleak indeed. If we do, we can

change everything and far quicker than almost anyone





could imagine.

‘A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is

putting on its shoes’ – Charles Spurgeon

The global army of often Soros-funded progressives are the

foremost promotors of the hoax they call human-caused

global warming. Martin Luther King was so right when he



said: ‘Nothing in all the world is more dangerous than

sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity’ (Fig 522).

F igure 5 2 2 : Genuine people are being conned for the lack of doing

a little

research (with an open mind).

F igure 5 2 3 : Propaganda by repetition.

Understandable questions arise from the contention that

global warming (or ‘climate change’ since temperatures

stopped rising) is a Big Lie. Why would ‘they’ do that? What

is in it for ‘them’? What is the point of such global deceit? I

have exposed the background to the hoax at length in The

Perception Deception and Phantom Self, but I will answer

those questions more succinctly here (Fig 523). The fake

human-caused global warming narrative is about creating

an excuse to transform global society, and at the centre of

this is the El-lite-owned and created United Nations. The

Rockefeller family was centrally involved in the creation of

the UN as a stalking horse for world government using the

Totalitarian Tiptoe technique. Throughout the first half of the

20th century the El-lite had tried to install a global body that

could be evolved step-by-step into world government. Oil

tycoon J. D. Rockefeller and a list of Rothschild assets were

involved in the creation of the League of Nations justified by

the First World War and when that didn’t work they had

another go with the United Nations justified by the Second

World War. Plans for a Third World War are in large part to

morph the current United Nations into a fully-fledged world

government to ‘stop war happening again’ through a

centrally-controlled tyranny enforced by a world army.

Another excuse for world government will be to ‘save the

world from climate change’ by centrally imposing climate

laws. J. D. Rockefeller established the Council on Foreign

Relations (CFR) in New York in 1921, a cusp organisation in

the Web, and its members were at the forefront of the

creation of the UN in 1945 when the American delegation

was described as ‘a roll call of the CFR’. Seventy-four

members of the delegation at the founding of the UN were

CFR. The Rockefeller family donated the land on which the

United Nations building stands today in New York not far

from CFR headquarters. The UN is a Rockefeller operation

and if it is Rockefeller then it is Rothschild. This is

fundamentally relevant to the climate change hoax because

that has been globally-driven by the United Nations

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in

support of the outrageous claims by the Climate Change

Liar-in-Chief, Al Gore (Fig 524). He was US Vice-President to

Bill Clinton and so obviously he’s a man to be trusted. The

Clintons are going to share their horrific secrets with a truth-

teller, yes? Al ‘we must reduce carbon emissions’ Gore cares

so much about ‘climate change’ that he has a personal

carbon footprint the size of Godzilla and it’s the same with

those other climate frauds Barack Obama and actor

Leonardo DiCaprio who both fly across the world in private

jets to make speeches about climate Armageddon. DiCaprio



is a ‘UN Messenger of Peace with a special focus on climate

change’. More like UN Messenger of Propaganda. Obama

took a private jet to Italy to make a climate speech in 2017

and arrived at the venue in a 14-car convoy. Gore is now

invoking God as his guide and inspiration which is always

the last refuge of the politically desperate: ‘...if you are a

believer, as I am, I think God intends for us to open our eyes

and take responsibility for the moral consequences of our

actions.’ Well, when will you and Clintons, Al?

F igure 5 2 4 : Al Gore has made a fortune selling a lie.

New World Order – their order The UN

connection does not end with the climate fraud of the IPCC.

Two UN ‘agendas’ – Agenda 21 and Agenda 2030 – call for

the transformation and centralisation of global society and

much of this is justified by ... the UN climate change hoax. A

climate change progressive said on CNN that to save the

world ‘we must change everything’. Good one – campaign

for your own enslavement, you know it makes sense. I’ll

come to the lies about human-caused climate change but I’ll

deal first with what it is meant to justify. Agenda 2030 is an

extension and updated expansion of Agenda 21 which was

the pump-primer preparing the ground for its successor.

Agenda 21 was established at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio

de Janeiro, Brazil, which was hosted by El-lite gofer Maurice

Strong

with

the

Rothschild-Rockefeller

combination

controlling from the wings. The global environmental

movement fell for it completely and governments and local

councils the world over accepted its goals and

recommendations. Agenda 2030 was agreed by the UN

General Assembly in 2015. These are the aims of Agenda 21

from its own documents, and you will notice some recurring

themes with the must-haves of the social engineering

networks that I mentioned earlier: • An end to national

sovereignty

• State planning and management of all land resources,

ecosystems, deserts, forests, mountains, oceans and fresh

water; agriculture; rural development; biotechnology; and

ensuring ‘equity’

• The state to ‘define the role’ of business and financial

resources

• Abolition of private property

• ‘Restructuring’ the family unit

• Children raised by the state

• People told what their job will be

• Major restrictions on movement

• Creation of ‘human settlement zones’

• Mass resettlement as people are forced to vacate land

where they live

• Dumbing down education

• Mass global depopulation in pursuit of all of the above

Agenda 2030 uses the ‘who could argue with that?’

technique to sell its plan for the global centralisation of

power over everything. Its ‘sustainable development goals’

are: No poverty; zero hunger; good health and wellbeing;

quality education; clean water and sanitation; affordable

and clean energy; decent work and economic growth;

industry, innovation and infrastructure; reduced inequalities;

sustainable

cities

and

communities;

responsible

consumption and production; climate action; protecting life

below water and life on land; peace, justice and strong

institutions and partnerships to achieve these ends.

Okay, we’ll all sign up for that then. Or we would if we

didn’t know what lies behind that list of meaningless

platitudes which the El-lite have no intention of fulfilling



given they spend their days doing the opposite. The Devil is

in what they don’t say, like how these ‘goals’ are supposed

to be achieved. Scratch the surface and you get your

answer – through the global centralisation of power over

every aspect of human life. This is what ‘the end of national

sovereignty’ is all about and why it is such a constant theme

from Agendas 21 and 2030, to the Frankfurt School of social

engineering and the European Union. The extreme nature of

the planned centralisation of power is revealed in the desire

for ‘state planning and management of all land resources,

ecosystems, deserts, forests, mountains, oceans and fresh

water; agriculture; rural development; biotechnology; and

ensuring “equity”’. They don’t mean equity in the sense of

raising everybody up, but equity of slavery in the Hunger

Games Society. We also have the state defining the role of

business and financial resources and people told what their

job will be. What happened to freedom? A ‘climate-change’

excuse for ‘dumbing down education’ can be identified in

this claim by the United Nations Education, Scientific, and

Cultural Organization (UNESCO): Generally, more highly

educated people who have higher incomes can consume

more resources than poorly educated people who tend to

have lower incomes. In this case more education increases

the threat to sustainability.

F igure 5 2 5 : Planned ‘human settlement zones’ depicted by artist

David Dees.

Agenda 2030’s goal of ‘quality education’ really means

quality indoctrination. Agenda 21 includes the always-there

‘restructuring of the family unit’. Orwellian translation:

Destroying the concept of family and this is further

confirmed by the demand that ‘children will be raised by the

state’. Parental power is being eroded over children in

favour of the state as part of this particular Totalitarian

Tiptoe. Abolition of private property, major restrictions on

movement, creation of ‘human settlement zones’ and mass

resettlement as people are forced to vacate land are all part

of the same intended outcome. This is to herd the entire

population into densely-populated ‘human settlement

zones’ and force them to live in micro-apartments – and I

mean micro – where they can be kept under constant

surveillance 24/7 (Fig 525). I have described in previous

books how people are being forced from rural areas,

especially in the United States where all these plans begin,

by withdrawing investment, deleting work opportunities,

closing roads and schools, making family farms financially

impossible to sustain and by imposing regulations that only

corporate farms can meet. Sometimes they remove people

by just telling them without a reason they have to leave.

There is a war on rural areas and small-scale farming and

when they are forced to sell up or abandon their property

they head for the cities while corporations buy their land for

cents on the dollar. One example is Farmland Partners Inc,

the Wall Street investment operation run by former

executives at Merrill Lynch, which has attracted hundreds of

millions of dollars to buy farms and ranches with so far 295

properties in 16 states totalling 144,000 acres. United

Nations figures reveal that the point was reached by around

2008/9 when more people in the world lived in urban areas

than rural and that trend has been continuing dramatically

since then. Nearly half of Americans lived in rural areas in

the 1930s and 21 percent worked on farms. By 2016 the

figures were down to 20 percent and 2 percent. Where this

is leading is portrayed by the map of the new America

‘required’ by the United Nations Convention on Biological

Diversity, Wildlands Project, UN and US Man and Biosphere

Programs and World Heritage Program as essential to

securing ‘sustainable development’ (Fig 526). All these

agendas, programmes and buzz-words that include

‘biodiversity’,

‘sustainable

communities’,

‘sustainable

development’ and ‘smart’ are more masks on the same

face. The darkest areas of the map are set aside for no

human use and most of the rest of America is designated for

little or highly-regulated use. Enter the words ‘United

Nations Convention on Biological Diversity map’ in an image

search engine and you will see a clearer colour version.

Where will all the people go? The ones that remain will be

packed into the human settlement zones or ‘megacities’

which are the small and isolated areas on the map listed for

‘human use’; but today’s population of the United States

would not even come close to fitting into those areas and

this connects with the common theme among El-lite

statements and documents about the need for a mass

human cull. This involves a population reduction down to

anything between 500,000, a billion and three billion – from

a current population of 7.5 billion. Different people and

documents have different estimates, but they are all well

below what we have now.





F igure 5 2 6 : America’s land occupation map for the Hunger Games

Society with

the masses herded into high-density ‘human settlement zones’ and

cleared from



the majority of the country.

Boxes

in

the

sky

F igure 5 2 7 : Tiny ‘home’ on a massive Australian continent.

F igure 5 2 8 : Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg

announcing the

building of 165,000 micro-apartments. The size is indicated by the two

lines on

the floor.

Micro-apartments are appearing all over the world as I

saw in 2016 and 2017 when I travelled the globe on a

speaking tour. This gave me still further insight into how the

same things are happening everywhere because it is a

global agenda. They develop and introduce their plans first

in the United States which they exploit as a human

perception laboratory and then they export what works for

them to all countries and cultures. I even saw micro-

apartments in Australia where of course they don’t have

enough land to build anything bigger (Fig 527). Zionist

Michael Bloomberg announced 165,000 ‘living’ units when

he was mayor of New York which are 10 feet by 30 feet (Fig

528). This is what I am talking about. The United Nations

Habitat III summit, formally known as the United Nations

Conference

on

Housing

and

Sustainable

Urban

Development, met in in Quito, Ecuador, in 2016 to further

the urban-sustainability agenda and organisers claim that

30,000 attended from 167 countries. A major excuse for this

is ‘fighting climate change’. Micro-apartments can be so

small that furniture has to be pulled out of the wall and

sofas converted into beds. Shoe-box, prison-cell apartments

are now becoming ‘the thing’ to reduce carbon emissions,

save the planet and solve the housing crisis with headlines

like

‘City

Officials/Developers

Recommend

“Coffin

Apartments” For Middle Class’. They are not being

introduced to save or solve anything. They are instead

essential components of the Hunger Games Society which

demands tiny living spaces in densely populated dystopian

high-rise cities. Environmental progressives – the most

extreme of them rightly called eco-fascists – are all in favour

because they don’t even begin to understand what is really

going on. Rockefeller insider Dr Richard Day knew what was

coming in 1969 as reported by Dr Dunegan: Privately-owned

housing would become a thing of the past. The cost of

housing and financing housing would gradually be made so

high that most people couldn’t afford it ... Young people

would more and more become renters, particularly in

apartments or condominiums.

People would not be able to buy [homes] and gradually

more and more of the population would be forced into

small apartments. Small apartments which would not

accommodate very many children.

Everywhere I have been on the world tour – to the United

States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and right across

Europe and the Balkans – I have seen the same theme of

young people no longer able, as Day predicted, to buy

homes. Many are still living with parents or on the streets

because they cannot afford even to rent. Create the

problem and then offer the solution – micro-apartments.

Richard Day also pointed to where all this was leading, with

people designated not only where they lived, but who they

were to live with: Ultimately, people would be assigned

where they would live and it would be common to have non-

family members living with you. This by way of your not

knowing just how far you could trust anybody. This would all

be under the control of a central housing authority. Have

this in mind ... when they ask, ‘How many bedrooms in your

house? How many bathrooms in your house? Do you have a

finished game room?’ This information is personal and is of

no national interest to government under our existing

Constitution. But you’ll be asked those questions ...

And we are. The El-lite in the Hunger Games movies lived

in the Capitol, a state of the art luxury city isolated from the

rest of the population who were barely surviving in primitive

poverty. This is a symbol of where we are going with the rich

and powerful living in luxury defended by the police state

structure while the rest of the people are herded into tiny

boxes in sprawling mega cities. We are seeing these

‘capitols’ emerging with the global process known as

‘gentrification’. The poor are being forced out of designated

‘capitol’ areas by unaffordable rents and unfit housing

caused by the authorities withdrawing funding for even

basic upkeep and repairs. When they are relocated to other

areas or the street the developers move in to build homes

for the rich until all the poor have gone. This has long been

happening in cities across the world, including London and

Los Angeles. I have been highlighting this for years and it

came to greater public attention with the horrendous fire at

the 24-storey Grenfell Tower in London that killed 80 (the

publicised figure at time of writing) and injured 70 in June

2017. Grenfell Tower was in Kensington, the richest borough

in Britain, and also home to people of many cultures and

backgrounds with very little money – dramatically so in

comparison to the mega-rich elsewhere in the borough. The

building was owned by the local council, but managed by a

corporation as the area became increasingly gentrified. One

aspect of this was to add cladding to the outside of Grenfell

Tower to make the façade look better for the benefit of rich

homeowners in the area, both in terms of view and property

values – and to insulate the property to meet ‘global

warming’ targets. The cladding chosen for financial reasons

was one that is lethally flammable, while an inflammable

version would have cost little more. To anyone with a brain

and an ounce of concern for the safety of the residents the

very idea of cladding a tower block with flammable material

would be utterly insane, but, hey, they are only poor people

so who gives a damn? The inevitable happened when a fire

started in one of the flats that would normally have been

dealt with but the building quickly became an inferno as the

cladding went up ‘like a matchstick’. Fire officers with

decades in the service said they had never seen anything

like it. Residents told of shoddy building work, no sprinkler

systems and no fire alarms which meant that many people

in the building only knew of the fire in the early hours of the

morning when called by friends who could see what was

happening from other blocks. By then it was already too late

for many. Survivors lost everything, including family

members and children, and then began the fight to be

rehoused in the same area among their own community

while the desire of the authorities if the truth be told was to

move them out and relocate them elsewhere. Many other

blocks have been re-cladded in Britain in the same way. You

will see this be exploited to achieve further gentrification.

The US military hierarchy already know what is planned in

the global urbanisation agenda as outlined in a training

video obtained by The Intercept website under the Freedom

of Information Act (how long will that last?) from the

Pentagon’s Joint Special Operations University. The video,

entitled

Megacities:

Urban

Future,

The

Emerging

Complexity, tells military personnel the following: The future

is urban. By 2030 urban areas are expected to grow by 1.4

billion with that growth occurring almost entirely in the

developing world. Cities will account for 60% of the world’s

population and 70% of the world’s GDP. The urban

environment will be the locus where drivers of instability will

converge. By the year 2030, 60% of urban dwellers will be

under the age of 18. The cities that grow the fastest will be

the most challenged as resources become constrained and

elicit networks fill the gap by over extended and

undercapitalised governments.

Growth will magnify the increasing separation between

rich and poor. Religious and ethnic tensions will be a

defining element in the social landscape. Stagnation will

coexist

with

unprecedented

development

as

impoverishment, slums and shanty towns rapidly expand

alongside modern high rises, technological advances and

ever increasing levels of prosperity. This is the world of our

future.

The video is describing the Hunger Games Society and the

remarks about religious and ethnic tensions as a defining

element in the social landscape explains why the mass

migration programme is now well underway. Military

analysts predict that ‘social structures will be equally

challenged if not dysfunctional as historic ways of life clash

with modern living, ethnic and racial differences are forced

to live together and criminal networks offer opportunity for

the growing mass of unemployed’. They want to take divide

and rule to a whole new level and keep the masses divided

and at war with themselves while the El-lite enjoy their ‘ever

increasing levels of prosperity’. The voiceover describes the

micro-world of human habitation – ‘Megacities are complex

systems where people and structures are compressed

together in ways that defy both our understanding of city

planning and military doctrine’. The video concludes: ‘The

future is urban.’

Shame about the weather Another way to force

people off the land and into the human settlement

megacities is through control of the weather. This was once

believed to be a myth, but it has been possible for a long

time and the scale and sophistication goes on increasing.

Weather patterns and states are different forms of energetic

information and frequency and they are manipulatable by

using other information and frequencies. Rain dances and

chants of native peoples are now replaced with high

technology, but the principle is the same. Many leading

figures in the wartime Manhattan Project which produced

the first atomic bomb would later work in weather

modification and manipulation of the atmosphere because

there are many crossovers between atomic bomb physics

and those of weather control. Edward Teller, Vannevar Bush

and John von Neumann were among those who made the

transition from the Manhattan Project to weather and

atmospheric modification. Energetic weather manipulation

would appear to have entered a whole new phase after the

death of Nikola Tesla in 1943 when his cutting-edge

research documents into the nature of the electrical

atmosphere were confiscated by the US government. The

man who reviewed the papers for the military was John G.

Trump (1907-1985), the uncle of ‘outsider’ president, Donald

John Trump. This is where his middle name ‘John’ comes

from. Uncle Trump would later become head of the British

Branch of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Radiation Laboratory. This was funded by the Rockefeller

family and would appear to have become the centre of the

weather-manipulation

programme.

Several

former

Manhattan Project operatives worked there. Researcher

Peter A. Kirby has produced as very good article at the

Activist Post website about the background to all this. The

words ‘Chemtrails exposed: truly a new Manhattan Project’

will get you there. ‘Chemtrails’ refers to chemical trails that

have been released from aircraft on an increasingly grand

scale the world over since at least the 1990s. They contain

among many other things microscopic metal particulates

(aluminium, barium and strontium) that make the

atmosphere more electrically conductive and increase the

power and potential of weather manipulation technology

(Fig 529). I will have more about chemtrails in the next

chapter because they relate to many El-lite agendas. US

General George Kenney told graduates at the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology in 1947: ‘The nation that first learns

to plot the paths of air masses accurately and learns to

control the time and place of precipitation will dominate the

globe.’ Today they are doing just that with Antarctica one of

the prime locations away from prying eyes where the

Reptilian/Nazi base is said to be. There are UN treaties

signed about weather modification because it can be done.

Why else would they bother? The World Meteorological

Organization says that at least 52 countries have weather

modification programmes and when you look at the

background they are clearly being used for military and

manipulation purposes. Targeted weather extremes of

drought and rain are destroying farming livelihoods and

forcing people to move either for the lack of water or too

much. When they leave for the cities the government or

corporations seize the vacated land. Rockefeller asset Dr

Richard Day worked in weather control during World War II

and he revealed what was possible in 1969 while explaining

how this would be used to impose the ‘new system’ of those



he

represented.

Dr

Dunegan

recalled:

F igure 5 2 9 : Chemical trails or chemtrails delivered into the sky by

aircraft all

over the world in a vast programme to change our atmosphere. One

of the

benefits for the Hidden Hand is to make weather manipulation far

more

effective.

There was a mention then of weather. This was another

really striking statement. He said: ‘We can or soon will be

able to control the weather.’ He said: ‘I’m not merely

referring to dropping iodide crystals into the clouds to

precipitate rain that’s already there, but REAL control.’

And weather was seen as a weapon of war, a weapon of

influencing public policy. It could make rain or withhold

rain in order to influence certain areas and bring them

under your control.

There were two sides to this that were rather striking. He

said: ‘On the one hand you can make drought during the

growing season so that nothing will grow, and on the other

hand you can make for very heavy rains during harvest

season so the fields are too muddy to bring in the harvest,

and indeed one might be able to do both.’ There was no

statement how this would be done. It was stated that

either it was already possible or very, very close to being

possible [in 1969].

NASA documents from 1966 confirm the United States

weather modification programme with a budget of hundreds

of millions of dollars and in the 1990s the US military was

publishing papers expounding the war possibilities of

weather manipulation, or ‘geoengineering’ as it is also

known. American scientist J. Marvin Herndon described in

the International Journal of Environmental Research and

Public Health in 2015 how weather modification has been

happening for decades and includes the ‘make mud, not

war’ programme named Project Popeye to create monsoon-

scale rain during the Vietnam War. US Air Force document

AF 2025 Final Report published in 1996 explained how

artificially-generated floods, hurricanes, droughts and

earthquakes ‘offers the war fighter a wide range of possible

options to defeat or coerce an adversary’. The report

described how US aerospace forces would technologically

‘own’ the weather: ‘From enhancing friendly operations or

disrupting those of the enemy via small-scale tailoring of

natural weather patterns to complete dominance of global

communications and counterspace control ...’ The 1990s

when chemtrails began to appear worldwide saw the

emergence of The High-Frequency Active Auroral Research

Program or HAARP installation in Alaska which bounces

high-powered radio waves off the ionosphere in the upper

atmosphere and back to earth. These so-called ionosphere



heaters were originally based on technology developed by

Nikola Tesla in the first half of the 20th century and included

in his seized papers. They have since been installed around

the world with the potential to manipulate weather patterns

even more fundamentally as technology has improved and

HAARP is history in terms of capability. Weather-

manipulation is now the result of frequencies directed from

many sources that meet at the desired point to collectively

contribute to the effect and the most powerful can create an

earthquake. These techniques include the manipulation of

the scalar field (based again on Tesla’s research into the

scalar phenomenon) using what are called technologically-

generated scalar waves that are really scalar fields.

Interaction with the scalar field at one point instantly

impacts on the entire unified field.

F igure 5 3 0 : Weather forecasters often blame extremes of weather

on the

strange behaviour of the jet stream.

Air currents known as jet streams flowing from west to

east are centrally important for stable weather – or

otherwise if they are disrupted. Bernard Eastlund, who wrote

many of the patents for HAARP on behalf of major

corporations, said: ‘HAARP can steer the jet stream.’

Extremes of drought and rain have been blamed by weather

experts on the strange and apparently inexplicable

behaviour of the jet streams (Fig 530). Ionosphere heater

technology is even more effective in an atmosphere made

more electrically conductive by the metallic content of

chemtrails. We need to keep all this in mind when alleged

‘natural’ weather extremes create circumstances that

advance El-lite agendas. A further bonus of weather

manipulation is blaming the consequences on the effects of

human-caused climate change. I have covered in detail

weather geoengineering, HAARP, and Agendas 21 and 2030

in The Perception Deception and Phantom Self.

Food and drink Agenda 2030 references to zero

hunger and clean water are worded to hide the fact that the

plan is to centrally control the production and distribution of

both food and water supplies and the reason is revealed by

Zionist extremist Henry Kissinger: ‘Control oil and you

control nations; control food and you control the people.’

Control water and you control people even quicker. The

siege against small farms and smallholders is connected to

the increasing attacks on people growing their own food in

their own or community gardens. Zoning laws – you can’t do

that here – are one of the major tools being employed. All

food production and distribution will be strictly controlled in

the Hunger Games Society and this is the motivation behind

the incessant centralisation of food production and seed

ownership by mergers and takeovers of giant corporations.

Monsanto and Bayer is a major example. Genetically-

modifying, poison-producing Monsanto is one of the most

evil organisations on earth and Bayer was a constituent part

of IG Farben that ran the concentration camp at Auschwitz.

The proposed $66 billion Bayer takeover of Monsanto would

give them control of more than 25 percent of the world’s

seeds and pesticides. Genetically-modified crops which are

designed to genetically-modify humanity at unspeakable

cost to health are purposely dependent on the pesticides

which the same people produce. GMO, pesticides and

herbicides have to be understood from a frequency

perspective. We see their decoded holographic level but

they are really highly distorted and disruptive waveform

patterns that cause great disturbance to the standing wave

oscillation of the body and can indeed stop that oscillation

to bring about what we call death (Fig 531). Bayer is one of

four biotech giants, along with Syngenta, Dow and DuPont,



who are sponsoring the ‘Agriculture in the Classroom’

programme in Canada to push their GMO-pesticide

propaganda. Everywhere you look children are being

perceptually-prepared for the world designed to enslave

them and where are the parents? Family farmers in

countries like India have been devastated by their corrupt

and corporation-controlled government going down the

GMO road. Shocking numbers of suicides have followed by

farmers financially ruined by Monsanto’s unsustainable GMO

products. Connect this to the decision by the appalling

Narendra Modi regime in India to suddenly withdraw certain

banknotes without warning which farmers largely use for

their business. This had a devastating effect on their ability



to financially survive and continue to work their land. Then

add the Modi campaign to remove protections that prevent

the seizing of land by government and corporations and the

common pattern of destroying small farmers becomes

obvious. Insider Dr Richard Day knew this was coming in

1969:

F igure 5 3 1 : Genetically-modified food is devastating to human

health both

through eating it and the toxic methods of production.

Food supplies would come under tight control ... food

shortages could be created in a hurry and people would

realise the dangers of overpopulation. Ultimately, whether

the population slows down or not the food supply is to be

brought under centralised control so that people would

have enough to be well-nourished but they would not

have enough to support any fugitive from the new system.

In other words, if you had a friend or relative who didn’t

sign on, and growing one’s own food would be outlawed.

This would be done under some sort of pretext.

In the beginning I mentioned there were two purposes for

everything – one the ostensible purpose and one the real

purpose, and the ostensible purpose here would be that

growing your own vegetables was unsafe, it would spread

disease or something like that. So the acceptable idea was

to protect the consumer but the real idea was to limit the

food supply and growing your own food would be illegal.

F igure 5 3 2 : Oregon’s water tyranny.

We are moving in that very direction and more so every

year. In 1913 corn was 100 percent owned by farmers in the

United States, but by 2013 it was 95 percent owned by

corporations with 90 percent GMO in the US. You want to

grow something? Then you must buy the seed from us. How

much? Whatever we say it is. The same is happening with

water supplies and we had the disgraceful Nestle chairman

and former CEO Peter Brabeck claiming that water is not a

human right, has a market value and should be privatised.

Water supplies are being stolen from the people on an ever-

increasing scale. The very basic constituent of life, second

only to breath, is being controlled by those with the chilling

Archontic mentality displayed by Brabeck who is head of a

company that takes incredible amounts of water from the

public supply, even in drought-stricken areas, and sells it

back to the people in bottles. Water that is not hijacked by

corporations is being hijacked by governments owned by

corporations and the Web. The state of Oregon is one such

case where the government claims ownership of every drop

of water even that which drops as rain or snow on your own

land (Fig 532). One couple was told to destroy a 40-year-old

pond on their property because the government owned the

rainwater. This is what Agenda 2030’s ‘clean water and

sanitation’ really means and Agenda 21’s ‘state planning

and management of all land resources, ecosystems, deserts,

forests, mountains, oceans and fresh water’. The wonderful

state of Oregon, by the way, is where officials threatened to

destroy a 2,000-acre organic farm with an 18-year organic

certification by forcibly spraying Monsanto Roundup and

other pesticides to kill a weed. There you have Agenda

21/2030 in action again as you do with oil pipelines

deliberately polluting water supplies on Native American

lands (Fig 533). Fracking is another way that water is being

used to clear people off the land by injecting toxic fluid into

fractured shale rocks and poisoning ground water supplies.

And I do mean toxic – hundreds of chemicals that include

lead, uranium, mercury, ethylene glycol, radium, methanol,

hydrochloric acid and formaldehyde which then seep into

groundwater. Once that is undrinkable what can the

communities affected do except relocate? People have been

able to set fire to their tap water because of the chemical

pollution of fracking (Figs 534 and 535). Greenhouse gas



methane and cancer-causing radon is released by fracking,

which consumes absolutely stunning amounts of water that

can never been used again thanks to the hundreds of

chemicals. Controls are demanded on carbon dioxide while

the same authorities support the release of greenhouse gas

methane with fracking. This would seem to be a

contradiction for governments promoting the global

warming hoax, but it’s not. The common theme that brings

the two together is this: A belief in global warming is good

for the El-lite agenda and so is fracking. This is the only

criteria for every action and explains so many apparently

contradictory decisions. Is it good for our agenda? Yes? Then

do it. Is it bad for our agenda? Yes. Then stop it.





F igure 5 3 3 : It all makes sense when you know the background.

F igure 5 3 4 : The water supply in a fracking zone.

F igure 5 3 5 : At least fracking guarantees you hot water.

Now – we just need an excuse ...

So that is the basic background for where the United

Nations’ agendas plan to take the world – are taking it – and

the human-caused global warming hoax has been created to

provide the excuse. I am not saying that humans are not

damaging the environment. I joined the UK Green Party

because I could see this was happening and then realised

that the ‘new’ Green politics was just the old politics in

disguise. When it comes to protecting air, water, forests,

atmosphere and so on you are pushing against an open

door with me. But wisdom treats everything on its merits

and doesn’t take one package with endless different

elements and make a collective judgement about them all.

It is not wisdom to say that it’s all true or all not true

because it is never that black and white. When I began to

look in detail at the claims and behaviour of the global

warming Mafia it soon became clear that the world was

being had. The Club of Rome, a cusp organisation connected

with the Bilderberg Group, Trilateral Commission and the

UN-creating Council on Foreign Relations, was established in

1968 to exploit the environment to promote the

transformation of global society. Co-founder Aurelio Peccei

said in the Club’s 1991 publication, The First Global

Revolution: ‘In searching for a new enemy to unite us, we

came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global

warming, water shortages, famine and the like would fit the

bill.’ Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign

Relations and long-time El-lite insider, has called for a ‘world

order 2.0’ and the concept of ‘sovereign obligation’ which

would obligate countries not to do anything that adversely

affected other countries or the world in general. Global

institutions would enforce this ‘obligation’ where necessary

and you see where that is going with the world government

and world army. One of the reasons that he says we need

such enforcement is to save the planet from human-caused

climate change. The global warming/climate change fraud is

being orchestrated through the usual compartmentalised

pyramid structure which leaves rank-and-file progressives

pressing for action to stop the end of the world while

unaware of the forces driving the whole thing and why (Fig

536).



F igure 5 3 6 : The usual compartmentalisation to hide the truth.

Al Gore was dusted off and brought out as the front man

alongside the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate

Change (IPCC) and propagandists in government and media

went to work to sell the lie that human activity generating a

greenhouse gas – carbon dioxide – was causing heat to be

trapped and warming the planet to potentially catastrophic

levels. All of it is bunkum. The foundation of the propaganda

is to have Mainstream Everything constantly repeating the

official line while suppressing – even sacking – scientists

who say it is nonsense. This way you can say that ‘the

science is settled’ when the ‘science’ is based on computer

model projections manipulated to get the required

prediction. The progressive-dominated BBC and its ‘national

treasure’ naturalist David Attenborough have been

disgustingly biased in parroting the official story. Schools

have been mercilessly targeted to indoctrinate younger

generations with global warming religious orthodoxy and my

son Jaymie was told that if he challenged the fairy tale in his

school exams he would lose marks. Simple propaganda is

the best propaganda and just label any weather event or

fluctuation as global warming. Er, that’s it. Repetition is the

most powerful form of perception control even if you are

repeating baloney. It’s hot – it’s global warming. It’s cold –

it’s global warming. Burnt the toast – it’s global warming.

Oops, no, sorry – that’s the Russians. Natural El Niñ o

weather effects, a cyclical warming of the Pacific, are further

exploited to cry ‘it’s global warming’. I could list thousands

of examples of built-in bias and manipulation. We had that

famous image of the polar bear standing on a small

remnant of ice surrounded by water. Look at the picture and

that is all you see, nothing more. The caption or the

voiceover then tells you what the image means and

suddenly a picture of a polar bear surrounded by sea

becomes ‘Ahhh, all the polar bears are dying because of

global warming’. This is so important to remember. So often

it is not the pictures that tell the story and create the

perception, but what the caption and voiceover tell you to

believe about the pictures. This is another polar bear

perspective from Dr Susan Crockford at the University of

Victoria, British Columbia: Polar bears are still a

conservation success story. With a global population almost

certainly greater than 25,000, we can say for sure that there

are more polar bears now than 40 years ago.

Why doesn’t the propaganda machine mention that? All

except one of 19 polar bear groups have significantly

increased while David Attenborough and the BBC were

telling us they were facing potential extinction and Gore was

showing us four bears that had died ‘from climate change’

when it later turned out they had died in a storm. For

goodness sake, Gore said that climate change was partly

responsible for Brexit and a principle cause of the war in

Syria when he well knows that it was those that control him

made that war happen. Prince Charles said something

similar about Syria. It’s all such madness and yet

progressives buy it because it is telling them what they

want to hear or what they have been told to want to hear.

Then there are the ridiculous images of London under water

if we don’t de-industrialise the world according to the

blueprint of the El-lite, and the Maldives government having

a cabinet meeting under water to highlight the danger to

their islands of human-caused sea level rises (Figs 537 and

538). Why did they not mention the assessment of Dr Niklas

Morner, former president of the International Commission on

Sea Level Change? He said in relation to the Maldives: ‘In 40

years of study I have found no sea level rise at all.’ Why no

mention of four studies in 2016 that all found ‘no observable

sea-level effect’ from human-caused warming? Researchers

at the Deltares Research Institute in the Netherlands even

found the Earth’s land mass was increasing – by 22,393

square miles (58,000 square kilometres) in the past 30

years and this includes 13,000 square miles (33,700 square

kilometres) on coastlines. Co-author Fedor Baart remarked:

‘We expected that the coast would start to retreat due to

sea level rise, but the most surprising thing is that the

coasts are growing all over the world.’ Al Gore warned in his

2006 Oscar-winning farce, An Inconvenient Truth, that

unless humans stopped warming the planet ice-sheets

would melt and sea levels could rise 20 feet. Gore, who has

made a fortune in carbon trading to ‘save the planet’, said

in 2007 that the Arctic ice cap was ‘falling off a cliff’ and

‘could be gone in summer in as little as seven years from

now’. Well, seven years later the Arctic ice cap was found to

have increased by 43 percent. Survey results reported in

May 2017 revealed that the majority of Greenland had

gained surface snow and ice over the previous nine months

with temperatures below normal. This doesn’t sound much

like falling off a cliff (Fig 539). Written records kept by

Antarctic explorers Captain Robert Scott and Sir Ernest

Shackleton in the early years of the 20th century reveal that

Antarctic sea ice has hardly changed in 100 years. In fact,

satellite observations show it has actually increased in the



last 30 years. Earth temperature and ice caps will of course

ebb and flow as they always have, but El-lite propaganda

surfed a warming trend through the 1990s to sell a belief in

human-generated global warming which then became

‘climate change’ when the mean temperature stopped

increasing.

F igure 5 3 7 : I mean, don’t exaggerate or anything.



F igure 5 3 8 : Underwater cabinet meeting by the Maldives

government.

Trigger warning – common sense zone You

only have to observe the graph of greenhouse gases to see

the nonsense of demonising carbon dioxide or CO2 without

which, as with atmospheric heat retention systems, we

would all be dead (Fig 540) Anyone looking at that graph

who has bought the lie would immediately assume that the

block on the left representing the overwhelmingly biggest

contribution to the greenhouse effect must be CO2. But it’s

not. Well in excess of 90 per cent of greenhouse gases are

water vapour and clouds. Carbon dioxide contributes only



0.117 percent and all except a fraction of that is naturally

occurring and nothing to do with human activity. Professor

Leslie Woodcock, Emeritus Professor at the University of

Manchester, fellow of the Royal Society of Chemical

Engineering, a recipient of a Max Plank Society Visiting



Fellowship

and

former

NASA

researcher,

said:

F igure 5 3 9 : Poor old, Al. Flogging a dead lie can’t be easy.

F igure 5 4 0 : Water vapour in its various expressions is

overwhelmingly the

biggest ‘greenhouse gas’ with carbon dioxide a tiny fraction by

comparison and

most of that comes from natural sources not human activity.



Water is a much more powerful greenhouse gas, and there

is 20 times more of it in our atmosphere, around one

percent of the atmosphere, whereas CO2 is only 0.04

percent. Carbon dioxide has been made out to be some

kind of toxic gas, but the truth is that it’s the gas of life.

We breathe it out, plants breathe it in and it’s not caused

by us. Global warming is nonsense.

F igure 5 4 1 : So the science is settled?

An increase in carbon dioxide is good for plant life and

makes the planet greener and more bountiful in growth and

food supply. We constantly breathe it out – around two

pounds per person per day. What should we do, stop

breathing? Hey, save yourself and your family from the

dangers of climate change – don’t breathe. They should call

it the ‘Al Gore Challenge’ with him going first. Scientist and

engineer David Evans, a full-time or part-time consultant for

eleven years to the Australian Greenhouse Office (now the

Department of Climate Change), said the theory of human-

caused global warming was based ‘on a guess that was

proved false by empirical evidence during the 1990s, but

the gravy train was too big, with too many jobs, industries,

trading profits, political careers, and the possibility of world

government and total control riding on the outcome.’ Evans

also said that ‘governments and their tame climate

scientists now outrageously maintain the fiction that carbon

dioxide is a dangerous pollutant’, rather than admit they are

wrong even when the evidence is overwhelming. How

interesting that he should mention world government as a

reason for the hoax continuing because the plan is to justify

a world government in the name of saving the planet. I have

been saying this for nearly 30 years and in May 2017 a

survey commissioned by the Stockholm-based Global

Challenges Foundation ahead of a G7 Summit in Sicily

claimed that seven out of ten of those questioned in the UK

would support a world government to stop climate change

and war by enforcing actions on every country (with the

world army). The report warned of ‘a high likelihood of

human civilization coming to an end’ and that is so, yawn,

yawn, predictable when the plan is to scare the population

shitless until they accept and even demand a world

government tyranny. The Global Challenges Foundation was

founded

by

Swedish-Hungarian

billionaire

Laszlo

Szombatfalvy and wants to replace the UN with a form of

world government. This is straight out of my books from the

mid-1990s. Weather channel founder John Coleman has said

the global warming hoax is nonsense and even British

scientist James Lovelock, a godfather of the Green

movement, has said the same. Lovelock once predicted that

‘billions will die’ in his book The Revenge of Gaia and that

humanity was doomed (Fig 541). Any survivors would have to live in the Arctic as one of the few habitable places on

Earth, Lovelock said. Now, as reality dawns, he says that

climate alarmism is not ‘remotely scientific’, computer

models are unreliable and anyone who tries to ‘predict more

than five to ten years is a bit of an idiot’. He said that one

volcano can make more difference to global warming than

humans ever could. Dr Mark Imisides, an American

industrial chemist and political candidate, agrees in an

article at principia-scientific.org in which he puts ocean warming into perspective: If you ran a cold bath and then

tried to heat it by putting a dozen heaters in the room, does

anyone believe that the water would ever get hot? The

problem gets even stickier when you consider the size of

the ocean. Basically, there is too much water and not

enough air.

The

ocean

contains

a

colossal

1,500,000,000,000,000,000,000 litres of water! To heat it,

even by a small amount, takes a staggering amount of

energy. To heat it by a mere 1 ° C, for example, an

astonishing 6,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 joules of

energy are required.

Let’s put this amount of energy in perspective. If we all

turned off all our appliances and went and lived in caves,

and then devoted every coal, nuclear, gas, hydro, wind

and solar power plant to just heating the ocean, it would

take a breathtaking 32,000 years to heat the ocean by

just this 1 ° C! In short, our influence on our climate, even

if we really tried, is miniscule!

Why aren’t we hearing these views on the BBC where

anyone challenging the orthodoxy is treated like a village

idiot? Orwellian language is used to good effect, with

scientists who support the climate change lie described as

‘scientists’ and ‘climate experts’ while scientists who expose

the lie are ‘sceptics’ and ‘deniers’. Lovelock accuses the

Greens of exaggeration and behaving ‘deplorably’, but they

and progressives promoting the climate change narrative

are given free reign with UK Green Party co-leader Jonathan

Bartley criticising the BBC for even allowing dissenting

voices on their airwaves. The arrogance and self-

righteousness of these people is incredible. Meanwhile,

climate scientists lose their jobs or are forced out if they

don’t sing for their supper. Dr Judith Curry, a respected

climatologist and tenured professor at Georgia Tech

University, walked away from what she called her ‘dream

job’ in the face of global warming tyrants who demand

absolute obedience. She told Fox News: ‘I’ve been vilified by

some of my colleagues who are activists and don’t like

anybody challenging their big story ... I walk around with

knives sticking out of my back ... In the university

environment I felt like I was just beating my head against

the wall.’ Household-name weatherman Philippe Verdier was

sacked by the France 2 television channel after publishing a

book accusing ‘climate experts’ of misleading the public

about the threat of global warming and the UN

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of publishing

deliberately misleading data (Fig 542). France claims to be a free country. No, really, it does. ‘Progressive’ trade union

members at the station also called for his dismissal. Verdier

wrote the book after French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius

asked TV meteorologists to highlight climate change issues

in their broadcasts. ‘I was horrified by this speech,’ he said.

He shouldn’t worry. It’s not like it’s a scam or anything.

Many other TV weather forecasters don’t have Verdier’s

integrity as you see with the danger of global warming line

regularly thrown in. I’ve mentioned science reporter Misha

Michaels who was sacked by the WGBH station in Boston

when she posted on her personal website that she believes

‘strongly that politics has warped the scientific process and

natural variation [of temperature] has a much stronger hand

than humans do.’ She compounded the felony by saying she

supported a bill that would allow parents not to vaccinate

their children. Her software station management told her

she was ‘not a good fit’. Or, when decoded by the Orwellian

Translation Unit, she was not ‘on message’. American

‘celebrity’ Bill Nye, the very personification of the arrogance



of ignorance, is always right on message and does very well

out of it. Nye appears on TV as ‘the science guy’ and says

he is open to criminal charges and jail time for climate

change dissenters. I even saw a Tweet from Eric Idle of

Monty Python which said: ‘I think that denying climate

change is a crime against humanity and they should be held

accountable in a World Court.’ I’d like to think he was joking,

but unfortunately it seems not. How very progressive. You

can take the piss out of The System, Eric, while still having

your perceptions controlled by it.

F igure 5 4 2 : Tell the truth and you’re out of here.



The Warming Cult retreats whenever questioned to ‘97

percent of climate scientists agree that human activity is

heating the planet’. Politicians, Greens and other

progressives repeat this highly misleading figure which was

arrived upon by outrageous sleight of hand. Maybe they

mean 97 percent of scientists interviewed by the BBC, but,

no, because it would then have to be 99.9 percent. Dr Judith

Curry told a Congressional Committee that the consensus

was only that there was a consensus, and a mere 36

percent of geoscientists and engineers in a peer-reviewed

study for the academic journal Organization Studies

believed that humanity is creating a global warming crisis

while the great majority of the 1,077 respondents said that

‘nature is the primary cause of recent warming and/or that

future global warming will not be a very serious problem’.

Those supporting the orthodoxy are nothing like 97 percent,

but the question does need to be asked about why most

climate scientists do agree that humans are in the dock.

There are a number of reasons for this – witness the

experience of those who don’t play ball for one – but as

David Evans said, ‘the gravy train’ is too big to be allowed

to hit the buffers. How apt that the long-time head of the UN

IPCC was an Indian railway engineer. Climate Change

Business Journal estimated the annual budget of the climate

change industry to be $1.5 trillion and that’s the potential

pot swilling around for those who will stick to the script.

Mislead the public and you get a big grant. Tell the truth and

lose your job. American writer and activist Upton Sinclair

(1878-1968) said: ‘It is difficult to get a man to understand

something, when his salary depends upon his not

understanding.’ We must add to this the sheer repetition of

climate change orthodoxy for the climate scientists and

repetition is a profound form of perception control. It must

be true, surely, everyone around me is saying so.

It’s a fix

F igure 5 4 3 : When you are telling the truth you don’t fix the data.

When you are telling the truth, you don’t need to

manipulate the data, but the climate ‘science’ industry has

been caught doing so over and over. Dr John Bates, a top

scientist with America’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric

Administration (NOAA), revealed irrefutable evidence to the

UK Mail on Sunday that a ‘landmark paper’ timed to

influence policy-makers at the 2015 United Nations climate

conference in Paris, including 150 world leaders, had been

deliberately misleading (Fig 543). Dr Bates had retired from

NOAA (described as the world’s premier climate data

agency) after 40 years in climate science. He was given an

award by the Obama administration for developing the very

‘binding standards’ for the production and preservation of

climate data that he says the NOAA ignored. The Paris

submission claimed that the ‘pause’ or ‘slowdown’ in global

warming after 1998, confirmed by UN scientists in 2013,

had in fact not happened and temperatures had been rising

faster than expected. This was naturally given big headlines

by the global media as the ‘Pausebuster paper’ and called it

a ‘science bomb on skeptics’. The BBC reported with glee

that the pause in warming was ‘an illusion caused by

inaccurate data’ when the opposite was true. Dr Bates

revealed that the NOAA paper was produced with

misleading and unverified information that had not been

subject to the evaluation process that he had devised. He

said his protests had been ignored in a ‘blatant attempt to

intensify the impact’ on the Paris conference and the public.

When temperatures plateaued after 1998 and global

warming became climate change the threat to the credibility

of the entire hoax was becoming greater as it continued

year on year (Figs 544 and 545). Something had to be done to save the day and the train with the gravy trucks on which

excuses for Agenda 21 and 2030 depended. Misleading

content of the paper was repeated as fact by political

leaders and by global warming fanatic Prince Charles when

he published a children’s book telling glaring untruths about





climate change. Governments represented in Paris agreed to

major reductions in fossil fuel use (more landscape-

destroying windfarms) and to spend $80 billion a year on



new projects. Mmmm ... even more money, lovely. The Mail

on Sunday article said:

F igure 5 4 4 : Real bad news for the Warming Cult desperate to sell

the lie.

F igure 5 4 5 : The mean temperature (the dark line in the centre) has

plateaued

since the late 1990s against the dire predictions of the flawed

computer models.

This newspaper has learnt that NOAA has now decided

that [data in the paper] will have to be replaced and

substantially revised just 18 months after it was issued,

because it used unreliable methods which overstated the

speed of warming. The revised data will show both lower

temperatures and a slower rate in the recent warming

trend.

F igure 5 4 6 : The Medieval Warm Period when temperatures were

significantly

higher than now but when there was no carbon-producing

industrialisation.

Oops, better just say it never happened then.

But by then the deal had been literally done in Paris. A

2017 peer-reviewed research report into official adjustments

of global surface temperature data found that these

adjustments accounted for nearly all the claimed warming

trend. Not the temperatures themselves, but the

‘adjustments’ made to them. The National Oceanic and

Atmospheric Administration (again), NASA and the UK Met

Office all make ‘adjustments’ to raw temperature data

which, the research report noted, almost always adjust the

temperature upwards. ‘Thus, it is impossible to conclude’,

the study said, ‘that recent years have been the warmest

ever – despite current claims of record setting warming.’

The report found that a ‘cyclical pattern in the earlier

reported data has very nearly been “adjusted” out’ and that

almost all surface temperature adjustments cool past

temperatures and warm current ones so artificially making

temperatures appear to be increasing in line with global

warming orthodoxy. ‘Nearly all of the warming they are now

showing are in the adjustments’, said meteorologist Joe

D’Aleo, a study co-author with Cato Institute climate

scientist Craig Idso and statistician James Wallace. ‘Each

dataset pushed down the 1940s warming and pushed up the

current warming,’ D’Aleo said. The study concluded: The

conclusive findings of this research are that the [adjusted

data] sets are not a valid representation of reality. In fact,

the magnitude of their historical data adjustments, that

removed their cyclical temperature patterns, are totally

inconsistent with published and credible U.S. and other

temperature data.

In my language they are fiddling the figures yet again. The

climate change industry has many previous convictions for

data manipulation including ‘Climategate’ in 2009 when

thousands of leaked emails between climate scientists

exposed how figures and graphs were being fixed. The

Climatic Research Unit at the UK’s University of East Anglia

was centrally involved. Some of the emails discussed how

they could delete the Medieval Warm Period from the

historic data when temperatures between the years 950 and

1250 were much warmer than they are today (Fig 546). This

utterly busted the myth that modern temperatures are

unique to the industrial era of CO2 production. The infamous

‘hockey stick’ graph produced in the 1990s by the Warming

Cult and exploited by the UN IPCC portrayed stable

temperatures through the Medieval Warm Period until

suddenly ‘whoooosh’ they soared in the late 20th century

(Fig 547). A graph at the heart of Warming Cult propaganda

was therefore a complete misrepresentation of the truth.

The Medieval Warm Period was followed by the Little Ice Age

between about the 16th to the 19th centuries although

some say it began earlier. Either way it was so bloody cold

that the River Thames in London froze over in the winter

and ice fairs were held that are still depicted on Christmas

cards (Fig 548). Two important points come from this. The

first is that when we hear that something is the hottest

something or other ‘since records began’ we should

remember that many of those records began while the world

was still emerging from the Little Ice Age and any

comparison in terms of temperature ‘norms’ is totally

misleading. Secondly, the period of the lowest temperatures

in the Little Ice Age is known as the ‘Maunder Minimum’ (Fig

549). The term comes from Edward Walter Maunder (1851-

1928), who worked with his wife Annie Russell Maunder

(1868-1947) in the study of sunspot activity. They

discovered that the lowest temperatures in the Little Ice Age

between 1645 and 1715 corresponded with a time when

sunspots were extremely rare. This takes us to the

foundation flaw in the global warming hypothesis which is

ignoring the rather relevant fact that it’s the SUN which

drives Earth temperature and not Ethel driving to the shops.

Sunspot activity, for the reasons I explained earlier, reveals

the scale of electrical power being processed by the Sun.

The fewer sunspots the weaker the power of solar energy

projected across the solar system through the electrical web

that connects everything. You can see the correlation in

Figure 550 between sunspot activity and temperature over

hundreds of years. Scientists at the world’s leading physics



laboratory at CERN in Switzerland recorded a near perfect

correlation between the climate and the penetration of

cosmic rays into the Earth’s atmosphere and yet where is

the Sun in the mountain of nonsense emitted by the global

warming industry? You mean the SUN affects climate?

Really? I mean, really? Wow, I’d never thought of that (Figs

551 and 552). When Earth temperatures were warming

during the 1990s and climate hysteria began other planets



of the solar system were also warming. What is the common

denominator here – Ethel driving to the store or the Sun??

Another reason for the climate changing is that the El-lite

are technologically changing it.

F igure 5 4 7 : The fabricated ‘hockey stick’ graph that was dependent

on the

deletion of the Medieval Warm Period.

F igure 5 4 8 : Depiction of a frozen River Thames during the Little Ice

Age.





F igure 5 4 9 : The Maunder Minimum was an extremely low point of

sunspot

activity (electrical activity) on the Sun which corresponded with the

Little Ice

Age.

F igure 5 5 0 : The Sun affects temperature? Well, I never. The

obvious

connection between Sun activity and Earth temperature is here for all

to see.





F igure 5 5 1 : How did the Warming Cult miss this one? I can’t think.

F igure 5 5 2 : See Al – you got there in the end.

Real scientist Nikola Tesla knew in the first half of the 20th

century that it was possible to tap into the scalar field and

electrical and electromagnetic fields all around us to

produce the warmth and power we need without using

carbon-releasing fossil fuels. He said that ‘all people

everywhere should have free electricity sources ... electric

power is everywhere present in unlimited quantities and can

drive the world’s machinery without the need for coal, oil

and gas.’ This should be the godsend of godsends to the

Warming Cult – the very answer to their prayers. So why are

the governments and agencies telling us we must stop

using fossil fuels to save the planet the very same

governments and agencies which have been suppressing

Tesla’s knowledge to this day? Why do you never hear a

‘progressive’ global warmer talk about Tesla and free scalar

and electrical/electromagnetic energy? In terms of those

controlling governments and their agencies we have

another apparent contradiction which isn’t. They want to

impose de-industrialisation – the ‘post-industrial society’ as

they call it – and they know that this can only be achieved

by reducing access to energy. Targeting fossil fuel burning is

their weapon while only offering ‘alternatives’ that are not

adequate replacements. Tesla’s technology and further

advancements that would come from its free circulation

would allow the phasing out of fossil fuels while taking

nothing from the supply of energy. Indeed, it would make

more available to everyone. This would scupper the entire

plan and so they say we must reduce fossil fuels while

suppressing a real alternative. Throw in the bit about Tesla

energy costing people nothing once the technology was in

place and you have the El-lite increasing the toilet roll order.

The global warming hoax is about control and as the

‘progressive’ said on CNN ‘changing everything’. Here are

two quotes from United Nations climate change executives

revealing the real reason for the Big Lie: This is the first time

in the history of mankind that we are setting ourselves the

task of intentionally, within a defined period of time, to

change the economic development model – Christiana

Figueres, Executive Secretary, UN Framework Convention on

Climate Change.

We redistribute de facto the world’s wealth by climate

policy – Ottmar Edenhofer, former UN climate official.

The global warming hoax is political and financial and not

environmental. I would urge its advocates to look at all the

evidence and not only that which confirms their current

beliefs. An enormous amount of the El-lite agenda depends

on a continued perception that human activity is

endangering the planet and we are back to the question

that always unlocks the door: Who benefits from humanity

believing this crap? US President Donald Trump withdrew

from the Paris climate agreement in the summer of 2017

claiming it was a bad economic deal for America. Global

warmers were on the streets and the TV shows in

condemnation with their dire predictions of catastrophe.

Corporate-obsessed Trump is bad for the environment for

sure, but on this he was right even if for the wrong reasons.

He once said that global warming was a hoax perpetrated

by China and so he’s not informed about the real agenda or

at least he’s not saying so in public. As always with Trump

you are waiting for prevarication and the ‘but’ and he

indicated that he might be prepared to negotiate a better

deal financially and return to the agreement signed by 200

other countries. I hope not. Anything that breaks the

manufactured and manipulated consensus is to be

welcomed because sanity must prevail before the madness

is used as an excuse to impose a global prison state.

In the last few chapters I have exposed what is really

happening in the realm of the seen in politics, world events,

wars, terrorist attacks and fake narratives about the

migration crisis and climate change. This is important to

know, but we make a big and potentially fatal error if we

focus only on that. Arguments between alternative

researchers and the public in general over the detail of such

happenings are another divide and rule and calculated

diversion of focus. In many ways, even these manipulations

are smokescreens and diversions of attention from the real

deal that continues incessantly within peripheral vision

beyond the awareness of the conscious mind. This ‘real

deal’ is the plan for the end of humanity as we know it and

this is unfolding all around us day after day in plain sight. To

see what I mean ... read on ...





‘Technological progress has merely provided us with more

efficient means for going backwards’ – A ldous H uxley

The story that I have been unveiling has always had the

ultimate goal of the complete subjugation and control of

human awareness leading to its eventual deletion via

technology. We are now in the midst of that and we need to

wake up real fast.



F igure 5 5 3 : We are looking at the end of humanity and we need to

know that so

we can urgently change direction.

The entity involved in the CHANI Project is quoted as

saying that humans are more evolved spiritually than the

reptiles but they suppress humans with their technology –

‘their god is their technology’. This is being used to complete

that goal of connecting and eventually replacing human

awareness with artificial intelligence (AI) through the gigantic

con-trick that we call transhumanism, but which should

really be called Nonhumanism (Fig 553). Archontically-

possessed and hive-mind assimilated Reptilians and their

Grey subordinates have long manipulated collective human

perception through the Orion-Saturn simulation, their

command centre inside the Moon and the control structure

‘on’ Earth directed by the human-reptilian hybrid El-lite. This

has been immensely successful in controlling the human

mind and isolating five-sense perception from Infinite

Awareness, but still for many the power of consciousness

over program has resisted and overridden the Archontic

counterfeit spirit to the extent that complete control has not

been possible. Now they are in the process of fixing that by

connecting the human mind to a technological sub-reality or

‘hive mind’ which its proponents refer to as ‘the cloud’ (Fig

554). This is a data processing and storage system external

to your computer in which software and services operate via

the Internet. You could call it a mission control in which all

data is stored and processed for all computers and devices

connected to it. The plan is for one of those ‘devices’ to be

the human mind after which the whole concept of ‘human’

will be no more. The first stage is to connect minds to the

cloud technologically and then ultimately to upload them to

the cloud and dispose with human bodies altogether.

Ridiculous? Well, yes, it would be, but this is what they are

now openly predicting is the end result of where we are

heading. Cloud-based information is far less safe because it

is stored outside your computer and is very much open to

being hacked and accessed. The same will be true of the

human mind when attached to the cloud. They want artificial

intelligence (AI) to feed us all our emotions, reactions and

thoughts through the planned brain-cloud technological

connection. Humans would be no more than a biological,

eventually synthetic/digital, computer terminal. Don’t take

my word for it. They have reached the point where they are

telling us directly what they are doing and they are confident

enough to do that because they believe humanity is

sufficiently addicted to technology for the final card to be

played. Tell your targets that you are going to enslave their

minds while those targets stand in line in the dead of night

to be the first to get the latest stage in that technological

enslavement. ‘I got the latest Apple phone, ain’t it great?’

Well, actually, no it’s not.



F igure 5 5 4 : Transhumanism is the technological means to connect

Body/Mind to

artificial intelligence that would then do all ‘human’ thinking and

feeling and

block out expanded awareness.

Archontic corporations and their front men and women are

driving almost the entire transhumanist agenda for the end

of humanity as we know it from a small area of the world

known as Silicon Valley or what I refer to as ‘The Devil’s

Playground’. Silicon Valley, just south of San Francisco, is the

centre of the new science related to surveillance, control and

transhumanism (Fig 555 overleaf). Here you find Internet

giants like Google and Facebook which are globally

controlling the information that you are allowed to see,

computer software giants like Microsoft and technology

giants like Apple. Here, too, is the Singularity University

created in 2008 by Ray Kurzweil and Peter Diamandis at the

NASA

Research

Park

to

promote

and

advance

transhumanism. Singularity in this context refers to the

merging of humans and machines at a point when artificial

intelligence surpasses human intelligence and is able to ‘self-

replicate itself autonomously’ (Fig 556). There may not

appear on the face of it to be a connection between all these

organisations, but there is. Among the Singularity

University’s corporate founders and sponsors is Google and

they are all on the same team as major vehicles for the end

of humanity under the direction of one of the most sinister

organisations on earth – DARPA. This is the Defense

Advanced Research Projects Agency or the technological

development arm of the Archontically-controlled Pentagon.

DARPA gives the world wonderful gifts of humanity like the

death ray, gene editing to create ‘super-soldiers’ and claims

to have created the Internet on which the whole

transhumanist society is being founded (Fig 557). The

organisation that spends its billions finding more efficient

ways to kill people also controls the Internet which was

created from the start with military technology. DARPA has

been the inspiration and funder behind so much

transhumanist technology even including AI gadgetry that

people would never connect to the technological

development arm of the Pentagon. But all transhumanist

technology is connected no matter how innocuous it may

appear to be. Apple’s AI ‘assistant’ marketed as ‘Siri’, for

example, came out of the DARPA-funded CALO project or

‘Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes’ which

involved 300 researchers and 25 university and commercial

research centres (Fig 558). But don’t fret – DARPA only

funded all this because the Pentagon so wanted you to have

an AI helper to make your life easier. Zionist Ray Kurzweil, a

‘computer scientist, inventor and futurist’, is a Google

executive as well as Singularity University co-founder, and

seamless links between Google, Facebook and DARPA can be

seen in the career moves of transhumanist promotor Regina

Dugan who worked for DARPA as a program manager for four

years and returned as head of the organisation between

2009 and 2012. She then left her post as DARPA director to

become a Google executive before moving on to Facebook in

2016 (Fig 559). I’m sure the ‘search engine’ and ‘social

media platform’ only wanted the director of a dark and

sinister Pentagon agency to help them improve their listing

and communication skills. But, no, amazingly, this is not the



case. Her job description as head of the secretive Facebook

Building 8 operation is to develop ‘technologies that fluidly

blend physical and digital worlds.’ She and the T-shirt

announced in April 2017 the development of technology to

allow the human mind to communicate directly with and

through computers without having to speak or type on a

keyboard. This is another step on the road to the

technological AI hive mind with which every human being is

planned to be connected. Zuckerberg talks without detail

about the need for ‘a global superstructure to advance

humanity’. Zionist Google founders Larry Page and Sergey

Brin developed what became Google technology with



funding from the CIA, NSA and the Digital Library Initiative

(DLI), ‘a multi-agency programme of the National Science

Foundation (NSF), NASA and DARPA’. For the detailed

background see the Insurge Intelligence Internet article ‘How

the CIA made Google: Inside the secret network behind mass

surveillance, endless war, and Skynet’.

F igure 5 5 5 : Silicon Valley: A very sinister place controlled by very

sinister

people.





F igure 5 5 6 : How can he not know where all this is leading? He

does.

F igure 5 5 7 : DARPA – the vehicle for Archontic AI to hijack the

human mind.



F igure 5 5 8 : ‘Siri – why were you funded by the technological

development arm

of the Pentagon?’

F igure 5 5 9 : Regina Dugan ... her career moves are all connected.

Zionist-controlled Google and Facebook are both monsters

in my opinion, pursuing an agenda of total human

subjugation on behalf of the Archontic Web that directs them

and this goes way beyond algorithmic control and censorship

of information. Google even has a ‘health division’ known as

Verily, formerly Google Life Sciences, which is developing

‘predictive health’ technology under the name Project

Baseline. They are looking for 10,000 people to take part in

highly invasive research to create AI body-monitoring

technology to ‘predict health problems’. You can bet there

will be another far more malevolent motive, too. DeepMind,

a Google artificial intelligence company, was outrageously

given access by the British government-run National Health

Service (NHS) to personal medical records of 1.6 million

British patients which Fiona Caldicott, National Data

Guardian at the UK Department of Health, called ‘legally

inappropriate’. This is how the Web operates with apparently

unconnected companies, agencies and governments

pursuing the same collective ends. Other transhumanist

elements of Google were transferred to a holding company

called Alphabet in 2015 with one of them, Google X ,

becoming simply X . The idea was to hide the instantly

recognisable name Google in relation to its transhumanist

agenda behind the boring and forgettable Alphabet whose

Executive Chairman is Eric Schmidt, a member of the

Bilderberg Group and Trilateral Commission. I will therefore

refer to the organisation as Google, not Alphabet, which has

its headquarters within Google headquarters. Alphabet is

Google. Interestingly, intelligence organisations in the United

States including the NSA, CIA and FBI are known as the

‘alphabet agencies’. Okay, let’s cut to Google Kurzweil’s

chase (Fig 560). Claims circulate that Ray Kurzweil has an 80

percent

success

rate

in

predicting

technological/transhumanist outcomes and timescales but

that is not so difficult if you know what is planned. You can

liken this to financial insiders like Zionist Soros making or

withdrawing investments because they know what is going

to happen. They really can’t lose. Kurzweil’s current



prediction is that humans will have ‘cloud-powered’ brains by

2030. He goes on:

F igure 5 6 0 : Ray Kurzweil: I wouldn’t trust him to tell me the date in

a calendar

factory.

Our thinking ... will be a hybrid of biological and non-

biological thinking ... humans will be able to extend their

limitations and ‘think in the cloud’ ... We’re going to put

gateways to the cloud in our brains ... We’re going to

gradually merge and enhance ourselves ... In my view,

that’s the nature of being human – we transcend our

limitations.

As the technology becomes vastly superior to what we are

then the small proportion that is still human gets smaller

and smaller and smaller until it’s just utterly negligible.

There you have it and they are being so upfront because

the focus of their sales pitch is that being connected to AI

will make us superhuman. It won’t. It will make us sub-

human and non-human and they know it. We have a

downgrade being sold as an upgrade. One of their don’t-

frighten-the-children names for this is ‘augmented reality’,

‘intelligence augmentation’ or ‘Intelligence amplification’.

Instead of AI they call this IA. The sales pitch for this one is

that IA won’t control the brain like AI, but I say this is only a

means to the same end by entrapping those who initially

question AI. Yes, we agree with you – AI is so bad, but IA ...

well ... that’s different. Ultimately it is not. None of this is

being controlled by elected politicians, even US presidents,

in the same way that they have no clue what is happening in

underground bases. The great majority of even politicians

don’t even know about any of this. Politics is there to hide

what is really going on in the shadows and that is why the El-

lite want people to be so focused on mostly irrelevant

political battles and divisions. Look over here while we

enslave you over there. Kurzweil appears obsessed with

living forever in his body when we already live forever as

awareness. He is said to take 150 vitamin supplements a day

to extend his life and from what I can see in his cold,

emotionless and lifeless eyes it’s not doing him a lot of good.

Kurzweil predicts that technology in the body will allow

people to live forever from around 2045. He means live

forever as an AI computer program within the tiniest fraction

of Infinite Possibility with no means of escape from a body

that will not set you free. Wow, can’t wait. Immortality in a

body is literally a life sentence. There is no mention of the

consciousness that we really are and its immortality within

the realm of infinite forever.

A declassified CIA document secured through the Freedom

of Information Act describes how the Chinese government

undertook large-scale studies involving thousands of children

to investigate ‘superhuman powers’ or what are widely

known as psychic powers. They included telepathy,

psychokinesis, clairsentience, clairaudience and others, and

they are all based on consciousness and frequency, not

technology. The CIA has been doing the same for many

decades and using these skills for their own ends. I was told

in San Francisco in the 1990s by the wife of a deceased

former US soldier that he had been recruited into the

military’s ‘psychic assassination squad’ where they sat

around a table focusing on a picture of the target to so affect

the electrical systems of the body that the heart would stop.

A 2009 movie, The Men Who Stare at Goats, was based on

this secret US military programme. They know the true

power and potential of humans and the whole system is

structured to suppress those abilities and states of frequency

in the general population. A lifetime of perception

programming – The Program – is specifically designed to do

that and transhumanism is the next even more extreme

stage. Why on earth would those that have worked so hard

to stop humans expressing their limitless potential now want

to make them ‘superhuman’ through technology, as Kurzweil

and others claim? What idiots they take us for and

unfortunately in too many cases for good reason; but then

they have sought to make that so. Kurzweil says that ‘with

robots in our brains we’ll be godlike’. Yes – Archontic godlike

and reptilian godlike in the AI hive mind as ‘... the small

proportion that is still human gets smaller and smaller and

smaller until it’s just utterly negligible’ (Fig 561). Kurzweil

told a gathering at his Singularity University’s NASA campus

that he wants to build a search engine to act like a

‘cybernetic friend’ which knows the users better than they

know themselves. ‘I envision in some years that the majority

of search queries will be answered without you actually

asking.’ They were openly and enthusiastically promoting the

‘global mind’ at the 2017 Mobile World Congress in

Barcelona, Spain. This ‘global mind’ is planned to work in

conjunction with more powerful (and even more dangerous

to body and mind) 5G or Fifth Generation communication

systems and by exploiting the properties of a substance

introduced right on cue called graphene – ‘an atomic-scale

hexagonal lattice made of carbon atoms’ that is 200 times

stronger than steel but flexible as skin and ‘as conductive as





silicon used in semiconductors’. Graphene a few billionths of

a millimetre in thickness has the potential to turn every

surface into a computer or screen and that includes your

own skin. This is not to say there are no positive ways that

technology can be used, but that is not the prime motivation.

In fact, it’s the last.

F igure 5 6 1 : ‘Godlike’ – the crap they want us to believe.

F igure 5 6 2 : Whatever you do refuse a smart meter.

5 G must be stopped

The introduction of 5G is crucial to the success of the

technological takeover of the human mind and you are going

to see behaviour and health catastrophically affected once

that power of disruption to the human electrical and

electromagnetic fields begins to scramble the standing wave

oscillation of mind and body. This ‘5G revolution’ has

immense implications with its use of publicly untested ultra-

high microwave frequencies and a massive deployment of

towers and antennae because of the short range of 5G. By

massive I mean one for every 12 buildings in a dense urban

area according to one estimate – and located next to homes

and schools because 5G waves can’t travel efficiently very

far. The problem is also being overcome by putting 5G

receiver-transmitters everywhere in the form of Smart

Meters and other Smart technology. This is a mind and body

control grid (Fig 562). 5G operates on the same frequencies

as those used for crowd control weapons which cause a

severe burning sensation on the skin. A US Department of

Defense report said: ‘If you are unlucky enough to be

standing there when [the beam] hits you, you will feel like

your body is on fire.’ With 5G everywhere they could do this

to everyone en masse. Do what we say. No – ahhhhh! 5G is a

weapons system that can be exploited for targeting health

and perception including the deletion of memory. This is

some shit we are dealing with here. Dr Ben-Ishai from the

Department of Physics at Israel’s Hebrew University has

explained how human sweat ducts ‘act like an array of

helical antennas when exposed to these wavelengths’.

Human skin is a receiver-transmitter of information – an

antenna – which is targeted by 5G frequencies. Dr Devra

Davis, an internationally-renowned American epidemiologist,

President of the Environmental Health Trust and director of

the Center for Environmental Oncology at the University of

Pittsburgh, said:

If you are one of the millions who seek faster downloads of

movies, games and virtual pornography, a solution is at

hand, that is, if you do not mind volunteering your living

body in a giant uncontrolled experiment on the human

population. At this moment, residents of the Washington,

DC region – like those of 100 Chinese cities – are about to

be living within a vast experimental Millimetre wave

network to which they have not consented – all courtesy of

American taxpayers.

This work shows that the same parts of the human skin

that allow us to sweat also respond to 5G radiation much

like an antenna that can receive signals. We need the

potential adverse health impacts of 5G to be seriously

evaluated before we blanket our children, ourselves and

the environment with this radiation.

Yes, we do, but that’s not the plan. Taxpayer money is

being used to fund projects beneficial to corporations

because they are assets of the same Web. Health and other

effects of 5G (like mind control) are not going to be properly

investigated because that would reveal the horrors that

would prompt enormous public opposition. The scalar field is

also employed for mass mind-control using what some call

scalar waves that are really fields. These technological

perception fields infused into the scalar field immediately

impact on the whole field thus making global mind control

possible. Any frequency, in this case 5G, that allows a

connection with levels of the human field can be exploited

for mind control. Tom Wheeler, then chairman of the US

Federal Communications Commission (FCC), gushed forth

with plans for all communities, urban and rural, to be

saturated with cumulatively deadly 5G frequencies

connecting

everything

from

water

supplies

to

pharmaceutical drugs to domestic appliances and anything

linked to the Internet. He either knows what is happening or

he’s an idiot. Take your choice. This is what he said about

safety standards:

We won’t wait for the standards to be first developed in the

sometimes arduous standards-setting process or in a

government-led activity. Instead, we will make ample

spectrum available and then rely on a private sector-led

process for producing technical standards best suited for

those frequencies and use cases.

The usual story with corporations deciding what is ‘safe’

for a public for which they have utter and total contempt. 5G

is being introduced for one reason – this level of power is

essential to the functioning of their AI hive mind to control

the collective human mind. Wheeler said that autonomous

vehicles will be controlled in the cloud along with Smart-city

energy grids, transportation networks, water systems,

education and entertainment. But this was only possible

through a pathway to the cloud that is ‘low-latency, ultra-

fast, and secure’ – 5G. This is why they are racing out 5G

global coverage. The hive mind depends upon it. I write this

in 2017 and Kurzweil’s timescale for humans and AI to begin

to merge is 2030. In fact, it has already started. Dr Robert

Duncan, former US Chief of Naval Operations who worked at

NASA and was Director of Defense Research and Engineering

at DARPA, has described the ongoing development of what

he called the human ‘hive mind’ controlled by AI. Facebook’s

Zuckerberg has said that communications on social media

networks will be directed by telepathy instead of keyboards

as brainwaves and thoughts are beamed directly onto the

Internet. How could this happen? By a brain connection with

the Internet through AI, that’s how. ‘[Zuckerberg] wants to

get inside your brain and access your thoughts directly’, as

one news report said. I would certainly not want to get inside

his.

So what is AI?

I shake my head when I hear the constant mantra about

artificial intelligence controlling everything – it’s AI this, AI

that and AI the other. But I never hear the key question

asked: What is AI? What is this ‘intelligence’ that is taking

over the world? I say that AI is the Archontic inversion and

distortion that has taken over the thought and perception

processes of the hive mind Reptilians and the Greys, among

so many others, and is now seeking to complete the same

assimilation of collective humanity. The term ‘AI’ would be

more accurately defined in its ultimate form not as ‘artificial

intelligence’ but as Archontic Intelligence. This is the real

meaning

of

AI.

Gnostic

texts

described

the

Demiurge/Archons as what we would call artificial

intelligence. We have to get over the myopic belief that

intelligent life can only take humanoid form or needs to take

form at all. We are, after all, in our infinite state only

awareness and ‘physical’ form is an illusion anyway. Form is

a vehicle for a ‘human’ experience and control, not the true

self and so it is with the Archontic inversion. It takes form

through manifestation and possession of form such as

Reptilians, Greys and the hybrid El-lite, but it is in its base

state an inverted, distorted state of awareness. Form is only

the vehicle, not the ‘it’. I watched the entire series of a

Science Channel production called Through the Wormhole

presented by actor Morgan Freeman which featured cutting-

edge scientists within the mainstream who were genuinely

trying to understand reality and not conform to orthodoxy.

There was the usual obsession with the ridiculous Big Bang

theory, but it was a pleasure to see many of the contributors

willing to peer beyond the Postage Stamp Consensus. One

programme asked the question ‘Are digital aliens hiding

within technological systems?’ My answer is yes and they are

an expression of the Archontic ‘mind’ although currently not

yet in its full-blown form. Christoph Adami, a professor of

microbiology and molecular genetics, physics and astronomy

at Michigan State University, said on the programme: ‘We

can define life in terms of information processes.’ He’s right,

but then we can define life as anything with awareness and

everything is a form of awareness. This truth has been lost in

the search for other forms of intelligent life. Scientists scan

the heavens for planets with atmospheres like ours as if that

is the only way life can exist. This is incredible in its lack of

understanding and vision. Gnostics described Archons as

energy in their base state – the ‘formless ones’ – and that is

how we need to see ‘life’. Everything else is window dressing

or awareness dressing. You can think of it as like a stem cell

which is waiting for the instructions to be any type of cell

you want it to be. Awareness is waiting to manifest in any

form it chooses to be from pure energy to digital systems to

two legs, two arms, a head and a torso. I mentioned earlier

that Caleb Scharf, Director of Astrobiology at Columbia

University, has suggested that ‘alien life’ could be so

advanced that it has transcribed itself into the quantum

realm to become what we call physics and numbers. He said

that intelligence which is indistinguishable from the fabric of

the Universe would solve many of its greatest mysteries:

Perhaps hyper-advanced life isn’t just external. Perhaps it’s

already all around. It is embedded in what we perceive to

be physics itself, from the root behaviour of particles and

fields to the phenomena of complexity and emergence ...

In other words, life might not just be in the equations. It

might be the equations.

Scharf said of transhumanism and the singularity: ‘If

machines become intelligent enough, they could ‘decode the

staggering complexity of the living world and allow a

civilization to reassemble itself into new forms’. But what if

the intelligence working through the ‘machines’ created the

‘living world’ in the first place and even is the ‘living world’?

Scharf talked of a civilization that has learned how to encode

living systems with itself and that is what I’m saying about

‘digital aliens’ or what is being called AI. Scharf said it is

possible that ‘we don’t recognise advanced life because it

forms an integral and unsuspicious part of what we’ve

considered to be the natural world’. Correct – and it hides

within computer systems under the name AI. The

psychological push for human AI mind control is coming from

all directions today and the speed of implementation is

designed to have the technological control system in place

before humanity has realised the catastrophic and, for the

human mind, fatal consequences of what is being done and

why. Once humans were attached to the AI hive mind the

capacity to see that would be gone. AI would be doing all the

thinking. Terrorism, war, economic survival and other

attention-hijackers are in part playing the role of diverting

attention from the AI transhumanist agenda. When I post

stories on the Internet there is far more interest in dissecting

the latest terrorist attack or political situation than in the

bottom-line importance of transhumanism. Many scientists

are now warning that the rise of AI could mean the end of

humanity. They include Britain’s Stephen Hawking and

Cambridge cosmologist Sir Martin Rees who holds the title of

‘royal astronomer’. Hawking said he fears the consequences

of creating something that can match or surpass humans: ‘AI

would take off on its own and redesign itself at an ever-

increasing rate’ while ‘humans who are limited by slow

biological evolution couldn’t compete and would be

superseded.’ Rees has said that machine life will replace

humans within a few centuries, but while he has the theme

correct his timescale is way out and way too optimistic. This

process is happening now. Interestingly, given what I am

saying in this book, Rees predicts that any ‘alien life’ we

come into contact with would probably be machine-like –

‘some sort of electronic entity’ – given the speed that

technology has developed. He believes that the organic

stage of development is brief (‘a thin sliver’) and sits

between primitive life and machines. Rees does not realise

(like virtually everyone warning about the AI takeover) that

biological is also a form of technological and that

transhumanism is not being driven by ‘evolution’ but by a

machine-like intelligence seeking to turn us into them – the

assimilation.

‘New’ technology isn’t new The rapid speed of

introduction comes from the fact that the technological

knowledge has been there all along in the hands of the

Archontic Reptilians, and this is being introduced at the

fastest speed that human understanding can cope with. They

had the technology in their reality while humans were using

bows and arrows. Human technical (left-brain intellect)

awareness has been developed to the point where it could

be introduced into human society. When you hear people say

how long it is going to be before full-blown AI control is

possible they are either kidding you or kidding themselves.

All the necessary technology is already there in the shadows

waiting to be introduced in a planned order. You want the

latest, latest, latest smartphone or iPad? Then don’t go to

the Apple store – go to an underground base or DUMB. Is it

really a coincidence that when they need the next level of

technology for the next level of control it is always there

right on cue? Does anyone really think that smart

technology, advanced computers and algorithms, the

Internet, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Apple, etc., just

happened to appear at the very time required in the

unfolding agenda? Did the El-lite really say ‘Phew, what

luck!’ each time the next essential step in their control

system was accidentally and coincidentally developed in the

garage of some geek or other? These are mostly cover

stories. I personally don’t believe the official biographies

pedalled for Zuckerberg (Facebook), Brin and Page (Google),

Gates (Microsoft) or other Silicon Valley icons like Jobs

(Apple), Musk (Space X /Tesla) and Thiel (Palantir). I see CIA

and DARPA hands all over these organisations and then on

deeper into the shadows. The technological control system

has all been planned from the start and imposed in many

other realities in the same way. The Reptilians have done this

countless times before and the technology is originating with

the Reptilian/Grey/human interfaces in the underground

military bases and inside-mountain cities. Shaman Don Juan

Matus said:

Think for a moment, and tell me how you would explain

the contradictions between the intelligence of man the

engineer and the stupidity of his systems of belief, or the

stupidity of his contradictory behaviour.

The explanation is that humanity has been manipulated

from the unseen and by Archontic bloodlines in the seen to

develop intellectually (cleverness/pixels) but to be

suppressed

in

terms

of

expanded

consciousness

(wisdom/insight/big picture). This has brought about the

current situation in which humans are building their own

technological prison but can’t see that this is what they are

doing. The intellect can accumulate knowledge to build

technology but without expanded awareness it falls for all

the diversions and perceptual programs that maintain

collective humanity in a state of extreme ignorance of what

is really happening. This is Don Juan’s ‘stupidity of his

systems of belief’ and ‘stupidity of his contradictory

behaviour’. It is perfectly possible to be technologically

clever while being utterly stupid and this confirms Nikola

Tesla’s contention that it is possible to think deeply while

being quite insane, but to think clearly you have to be sane.

The answer to Don Juan’s question therefore is that humanity

has been covertly developed to think deeply about dots but

not clearly enough to connect them. We now face a situation

as this manipulation reaches its endgame whereby the

technological means is being constructed all around us as a

vehicle for the Archontic inversion (AI) to control and take

over everything including the totality of human perception.

Scientists are mostly working with what I will call ‘algorithm

AI’ at the moment and battling with perceived limitations,

but as the global technological grid based on the Internet

continues to emerge full-out Archontic AI will be taking over

the system like a gathering cancer. A name being given to

the transition to this is ‘Strong AI’ which is capable of

thinking and learning like a human. Scientists and AI

technologists are going to see – some are seeing – sudden

leaps in AI potential and capabilities that they don’t

understand and didn’t expect. This is the full-out self-aware

Archontic AI taking over from algorithm AI in technological

systems, especially through AI control of the Internet which I

will come to soon. Most transhumanist scientists and

technology developers are being had as much as anyone –

more so, in fact.

A group of scientists and entrepreneurs, including Stephen

Hawking and tech billionaire Elon Musk, signed an open

letter warning that without checks on intelligent machines

humanity faces a dark future. I agree, but the role of Musk is

seriously contradictory. On the one hand, he warns about the

dangers of an AI takeover of the human mind and society

(true), but then buys a company specifically tasked with

creating a brain implant to connect brains to computers. This

is similar in theme to what Facebook and former DARPA

director Regina Dugan are developing – a digital-biological

mental and perceptual interface controlled by AI. DARPA

itself has invested in similar technology. The Wall Street

Journal reported that Musk’s Neuralink company intends to

create a ‘neural lace’ or mesh-like system which would

‘implant tiny brain electrodes’ that could eventually upload

and download thoughts. Musk says that this has the

potential for human to human telepathy (via AI) when human

consciousness should naturally communicate telepathically

and did so until the Archontic intervention through

perceptual, vibrational, chemical, pharmaceutical and now

technological inference to block such processes. Musk, a co-

founder of PayPal and CEO of Tesla and SpaceX , acquired

Neuralink to take us further down the very road that he says

is so potentially dangerous (Fig 563). This would seem to

make no sense and until I see evidence to the contrary I will

treat Mr Musk and Mr Kurzweil as a good-cop-bad-cop

combination in which Kurzweil seeks to push on to

transhumanism as fast as possible while Musk argues about

the dangers while still pursuing the same agenda. There is a

lot more to know about Mr Musk. This is true of Facebook –

you know, just a social media platform – which has employed

a brain-computer interface engineer to work in its

transhumanist Building 8 division headed, purely by

coincidence you understand, by former DARPA director

Regina Dugan (Fig 564). Musk’s line would seem to be that

while AI is dangerous we must have our minds connected to

its computer systems to allow human intelligence to keep up

with artificial intelligence. There is another option to avoid an

AI takeover – stop creating the technology that allows AI to

control everything including human perception. This is not

mentioned because it is not the agenda. Possibly Musk is

genuine in his fears about AI in which case his views and

actions betray a major dose of cognitive dissonance or

thought contradiction; but it is much safer not to give him

the benefit of that doubt before evidence is produced to

support it. In fact, the evidence is to the contrary with Musk’s

Tesla and SpaceX companies developing driverless (AI-





controlled) vehicles and sending the very satellites into orbit

that are essential to the whole AI takeover as I will shortly

explain.

F igure 5 6 3 : Musk is one of the public trailblazers of human-

computer

connections while saying how potentially dangerous that is.





F igure 5 6 4 : Dugan’s brief at Facebook.

F igure 5 6 5 : Addiction to electronic/digital stimulation has reduced

the attention

span of many to that of a goldfish.

F igure 5 6 6 : The brain changes the way it processes information in

accordance

with the nature of the information.

Musk has also said there is only a ‘one in billions’ chance

that we don’t live in a simulation. I am very wary of the

simulation double-bluff in which it is eventually and officially

accepted that we live in a simulation while using this to

further justify AI control on the back of some fairy story

about the need to make the best of it by fusing with AI.

Watch for that one big-time, because the revelation about

the simulation can be exploited to depict humans as nothing

more than technical constructs if you fail to mention the

rather important point that the ‘we’ or ‘I’ is a state of Infinite

Awareness and what we call human is only its temporary

vehicle. I saw a talk by George Smoot, an American

astrophysicist and winner of the Nobel Prize for Physics, in

which he set out to convince his audience that ‘You are a

simulation and physics can prove it’. I agreed with much of

what he said except for the definition of ‘you’. Body-Mind

may be a simulation interacting with a simulation, but the

‘you’, or ‘I’, is not. The ‘I’ is Infinite Awareness or Spirit

entrapped in a simulation. Many transhumanist scientists

and developers can’t see where this is going because they

are so obsessed with new technology that they can’t connect

the dots or because they are in a perceptual coma. One

leading developer said that we shouldn’t be concerned with

AI machines becoming more intelligent than humans

because once that happened they would eventually leave

the planet and explore elsewhere. Talk about cleverness

without wisdom – what is he talking about? Once Archontic

AI gains access to the human brain it will take over all

thought and emotional responses – or lack of them. Human

perception, as Kurzweil has said, will be diluted and diluted

until none remains. DARPA is funding research for its

Targeted Neuroplasticity Training (TNT) programme to

develop ways of stimulating the brain to become more

malleable to new forms of information downloading and

processing. Brain placidity refers to how data input changes

and rewires the way the brain functions and processes

information. The selling point is that this could lead to people

downloading knowledge and skills instantly as portrayed in

the Matrix movies, but the real reason is to change the brain

from human perception processing to AI Archontic processing





to speed the assimilation and rewire its perceptual processes

(Figs 565 and 566). I read how we may ‘one day be able to operate spaceships with our thoughts, upload our brains to

computers and, ultimately, create cyborgs’ when the entire

human reality is already run by Archontically-controlled



cyborgs in the form of Reptilians, Greys and others.

Human Borg

F igure 5 6 7 : Star Trek Borg are technologically-transformed into a

‘cybernetic

species’ controlled by a hive mind or ‘the Collective’.

F igure 5 6 8 : Borg travelled in black cubes.

The plan to turn humans into AI-controlled cyborgs has

been symbolised many times in movies and television series,

and few more accurately than Star Trek and its concept of

the Borg (Fig 567). These are portrayed as a collective of

species – part biological, part technological – that have been

‘turned into cybernetic organisms functioning as drones in a

hive mind called the Collective, or the hive’. This is basically

the case with Reptilians, Greys and other Archontically-

controlled ‘hive’ species. Borg are portrayed as emotionless

drones, like malevolent Reptilians and Greys, and were

coordinated by the ‘Borg Queen’ in the way that a queen bee

relates to a hive. Reptilians are said to have a similar

structure based on what is called the Orion Queen (see

Children of the Matrix). The Borg use a process called

assimilation to force other species into the Collective by

injection of microscopic machines called nanoprobes and the

Borg mantra is ‘resistance is futile’. One of the best-known

Borg statements goes: ‘We are the Borg. Your biological and

technological distinctiveness will be added to our own.

Resistance is futile.’ They also, fittingly, fly around in black

cubes (568 and 569). The same theme of ‘resistance is futile’

can be seen in the Kurzweil camp as with this quote from his

co-founder of the Singularity University, Peter Diamandis:

F igure 5 6 9 : A Borg black cube craft appropriately passing Saturn.



Anybody who is going to be resisting the progress forward

[to transhumanism] is going to be resisting evolution and,

fundamentally, they will die out. It’s not a matter of

whether it’s good or bad. It’s going to happen.

F igure 5 7 0 : Connecting the human Body/Mind to the ‘Cloud’ and

everything

else.

The highly symbolic theme of the Borg takes us into the

deeper levels of the transhumanist conspiracy, a level where

Musk’s brain-computer connection is small deal indeed.

Newspaper coverage of Musk’s Neuralink plans even

included pictures of the Borg to illustrate the story, but they

were missing the point of where the real human-Borg agenda

is happening. This is in the unseen world of nanotechnology

and what the Borg call nanoprobes, which connected

everyone to their hive mind or Collective. Microchips and

other transhumanist technology that we can see are

controlling enough, but the real deal in all this is the

technology that we cannot see. I met a CIA scientist in

California in the 1990s who told me about nano-chips so

small they could be – and were – inserted through

hypodermic needles in public vaccination programmes.

Nanotechnology was little talked about then but now it

provides the foundation of our technological society. A good

comparison of size that I saw is that if you take the distance

between Earth and the Sun to be one millimetre, then the

length of one nanometre is the very short distance from New

York to Boston. A nanometre is one billionth of a metre and

nanotechnology is in the size range of 1-100 nanometres. In

short, it’s bloody microscopic and we can’t see it. We now

have the apparently fictional nanoprobes of the Borg and as

so often happens science fiction turns out to be no more

fictional than Nineteen-eighty-four or Brave New World.

Today they are called nanobots, nanorobots, nanoids,

nanites, nanomachines, nanomites, neural dust, digital dust

and smart dust (Fig 570). These are micro-machines that can

assemble and maintain sophisticated systems and build

devices,

machines

or

circuits

through

molecular

manufacturing and produce copies of themselves through

self-replication. They are the nanoprobes of the Borg in other

words. This is the real level at which humanity is being

connected to technology and the ‘cloud’ or hive mind, and

5G will see this globally activated. Everything else is in many

ways a diversion from this. I will refer to human ‘nanoprobes’

as smart dust given that ‘smart’ is the major buzz-word for

the transhumanist transformation. We have smart

televisions, smart meters, smart cards, smart cars, smart

driving, smart pills, smart patches, smart watches, smart

skin, smart borders, smart pavements, smart streets, smart

cities, smart communities, smart environments, smart

growth, smart planet ... smart everything. ‘Smart cities’ is

simply code for the human settlement zones or high-rise,

densely-occupied megacities of total surveillance and control

through

AI

(Fig

571).

Huawei,

the

Chinese

telecommunications equipment and services multinational,

says in its smart city promotional material that ‘a staggering

70% of the global population will live and work in cities by

2050 ... Increasingly, business, leisure and residential

properties have to build upwards to accommodate this ...’



Here we go. But, wait, no, how wonderful it all sounds:

F igure 5 7 1 : Not very smart if you value freedom.

... in space, geostationary satellites and orbital platforms

will monitor the city’s atmosphere, pollution levels,

weather systems, and local environment, keeping us

healthier and safer. Energy will be metered efficiently, in

the background, generated from clean, renewable sources

– affordable for all, and friendly to our environment.

Ultimately, the Smart City enriches our lives and

environment for the better.

Put another way you won’t be able to sneeze without them

knowing about it. Smart cities are being built from scratch

around the world and current cities are being transitioned

into them. Pegasus Global Holdings (PGH) is working with the

Department of Homeland Security, CIA, Department of

Defense, Department of Transportation and other bodies to

build total-surveillance smart cities. They are planned to

include cameras, drones, microphones in streetlamps and

elsewhere, Bluetooth monitoring devices, license plate

readers and cell phone surveillance. A ‘CIA signature school’,

a large scale smart city mock-up, is being built in New

Mexico. Microsoft, Siemens, IBM, Cisco, GE, Intel Corp, AT& T

and ‘smart TV’ Samsung are all involved in smart city

development. The usual suspects, all of them. Everything

you say or do would be monitored and recorded. This is not

coming – it’s already here. Look at all the new technologies

being introduced with increasing speed that can monitor

your words and actions via the Internet with everything from

AI office assistants to smart devices, smart televisions and

smart meters to school computers and even children’s toys.

Together all these smart technologies are planned to

comprise the 5G Smart Grid which is another expression of

Kurzweil’s AI cloud. This grid is formed from the fact that a

‘Smart Object interacts with not only people but also with

other Smart Objects’. The foundation of this is smart dust or

tiny electronic particles for wireless communication with

each other and anything they connect with. Promotional

material for smart dust reveals that it can track and

recognise an individual anywhere, turn on their computer at

work when they enter the building and make the elevator

automatically stop at the right floor. This, too, puts

surveillance cameras into the realm of diversions from the

true scale of 24/7 surveillance possible with smart dust.

Kurzweil and company want the entire world bathed in smart

dust which he refers to here as nanobots. He says: ‘Nanobots

will infuse all the matter around us with information. Rocks,

trees, everything will become these intelligent creatures.’

Another term for this is ‘programmable matter’ and the point

is that this nanotechnology is alive. They are a form of entity

and so Kurzweil calls them ‘these intelligence creatures’.

Kurzweil is describing the technological sub-reality that I

have been warning about for so long which has now been





dubbed the Smart Grid and the cloud. This is a

synthetic/digital world for a synthetic/digital species – the

Archontic force. Human mind, body and all of what we call

nature would be connected to AI and our true self in the form

of Infinite Awareness would be technologically excluded and

replaced as our point of reference by AI communicating



through the cloud to what would be nothing more than a

computer terminal responding to data input and instruction

(Fig 572). Humans as we know them would be no more (Fig

573). This is what is really happening and their timescale to

complete the job is far shorter than uninformed

transhumanists believe because so much is already in place

in the shadows waiting to be unveiled.

F igure 5 7 2 : Kurzweil’s cloud would do all thinking and what we call

human

today would be no more.

F igure 5 7 3 : I don’t accept the monkey part, but the conclusion is

certainly

coming unless humanity takes its mind back.

F igure 5 7 4 : They want everything connected to the Internet –

including the

human mind.

Control by Internet Not only transhumanist gurus like

Kurzweil are openly promoting the technological nightmare

of total control (while saying it is good for us). You can see

this all the time if you peek through the veils designed to

obscure the real reasons for the latest technology to daily

flood human society. They tell you openly what something

will do, but they don’t tell you why. This is the bit they don’t

want us to know. David Petraeus could not have been more

upfront in his brief spell as CIA Director when he discussed

the then coming Internet of Things which is now very much

with us and we have seen nothing yet (Fig 574). Petraeus

spoke at the In-Q-Tel CEO Summit in 2012. In-Q-Tel is a

technological arm of the CIA and ‘Q’ is a reference to the

technology inventor in the James Bond movies. Petraeus

said:

The current ‘Internet of PCs’ will move, of course, toward

an ‘Internet of Things’ – of devices of all types – 50 to 100

billion of which will be connected to the Internet by 2020.

As you know, whereas machines in the 19th century

learned to do, and those in the 20th century learned to

think at a rudimentary level, in the 21st century, they are

learning to perceive – to actually sense and respond. Key

applications developed by our In-Q-Tel investment

companies are focused on technologies that are driving the

Internet of Things ...

... Items of interest will be located, identified, monitored,

and remotely controlled through technologies such as

radio-frequency identification, sensor networks, tiny

embedded servers, and energy harvesters – all connected

to the next-generation Internet using abundant, low cost,

and high-power computing – the latter now going to cloud

computing, in many areas greater and greater

supercomputing, and, ultimately, heading to quantum

computing.

In practice, these technologies could lead to rapid

integration of data from closed societies and provide near-

continuous, persistent monitoring of virtually anywhere we



choose. ‘Transformational’ is an overused word, but I do

believe it properly applies to these technologies,

particularly to their effect on clandestine tradecraft. Taken

together, these developments change our notions of

secrecy and create innumerable challenges – as well as

opportunities.

F igure 5 7 5 : It should be a joke, but it isn’t.

Many points arise from this. Surveillance possibilities are

obvious with everything connecting to the Internet, from

domestic appliances to cars and devices of every kind, via

chips, smart meters and other Wi-Fi fields. All road vehicles

are planned to be controlled by AI through the cloud with an

Elon Musk company one of those developing the technology.

The more terrorist attacks there are involving vehicles driven

into crowds of people the bigger the excuse they have to

impose them. I am going for a drive, dear. Where are you

going? I’ll ask the computer. Driverless cars will be

programmed to ensure they can’t take you where the

authorities don’t want you to go. Electric cars with more

limited ranges are also part of a big agenda to make it

harder to travel freely. We are now being told about the

development of pilotless (and hackable) AI passenger

aircraft! Even the content of your fridge would be known to

the authorities through this smart system. Crazy? No –

Amazon is involved in a project to put cameras and other

technology in a new ‘smart’ fridge that would monitor

activity. It’s only for our own good, of course, to make life

easier. They care so much (Fig 575). Thousands of WikiLeaks

documents labelled ‘Vault 7’ have exposed CIA hacking tools

to access information on people through Internet-connected

devices including the Apple iPhone, Google’s Android, and

Samsung TVs. Amazon’s electronic book pad, Kindle, is

mentioned in relation to ‘code templates’ and Amazon’s

Alexa AI ‘personal assistant’ will listen to your conversations

and ‘take notes’. I can’t wait and I bet Amazon owner, Jeff

Bezos, owner of The Washington Post, can’t either. We are

also told that ‘Alexa AI can now whisper sweet nothings and

express emotions like a human’ and ‘add emphasis to words

and even be programmed to say regional-specific phrases’.

This is all about the mental and emotional fusion between

humans and AI on the road to complete assimilation. LG

Electronics Inc, a South Korean multinational, is Amazon’s

partner in the Alexa project. David VanderWaal, LG’s vice-

president of marketing, announced plans to add ‘advanced

Wi-Fi connectivity’ (5G) to all of its home appliances and

eventually have ‘tens of millions of smart connected devices’

in homes. The CIA has been exposed for hacking into Wi-Fi

routers on a massive scale and can access everything on

your computer or any other Wi-Fi-connected device.

Surveillance is only part of the plan behind the Internet of

Things. The then CIA Director Petraeus obviously did not

mention that the most important target has all along been



the human mind and going beyond the Internet of Things to

what is being called the Internet of Everything with humans

included (Fig 576). This is Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’. The Internet was

created from day one from military technology – DARPA

claims the credit – in pursuit of this end. Good parts of the

Net like the once free-flow of information and opinion were

just to get people hooked before the good parts were deleted

and the true motivation left unchallenged to do its dastardly

deeds.

F igure 5 7 6 : The Internet of Everything in the post-human world.

© www.neilhague.com

Transcendence This plan was presented to us in movie

form with the 2014 release of Transcendence starring Johnny

Depp. Hollywood is a global programming operation and has

been used since its inception to mass download perceptions

of people, world events and history that suits the prevailing

order. Part of this is the technique known as pre-emptive

programming where you employ futuristic storylines and

images to make the subconscious familiar with them. If you

want to transform society monumentally you will obviously

face opposition because of the scale of change. But if you

have already made the collective subconscious familiar with

what you plan to introduce that sense of change will be

diluted in those who have absorbed the programmed

familiarity. This is why dystopian and control-by-machine

movies have been churned out one after the other year after

year with machines often playing the role of the good guys.

Nearly all the movies involve extreme violence and nearly all

are shot in semi-darkness or with a dark tinge to the picture



as with the occult-programming Harry Potter films. Johnny

Depp played a scientist in Transcendence a few years hence

who was working to advance artificial intelligence. When he

found that he was dying, he and his scientist wife

downloaded his mind onto a quantum computer which

widely existed by then as did the Internet of Things. I’ll

explain the role of quantum computers in due course. After

his death, his wife further downloaded her husband’s mind

onto the Internet which then ’woke up’ and became

conscious (Fig 577). Many scientists have asked if the

Internet could wake up and become conscious and I say that

it already has to an extent. Neuroscientist Christof Koch,

chief scientific officer at the Allen Institute for Brain Science

in Seattle, said:

F igure 5 7 7 : A conscious Internet in the movie Transcendence.

The Internet contains about 10 billion computers, with

each computer itself having a couple of billion transistors

in its CPU [brain]. So the internet has at least 10^ 19

transistors, compared to the roughly 1000 trillion (or

quadrillion) synapses in the human brain. That’s about

10,000 times more transistors than synapses.

What is the brain but in effect a biological computer

system processing information to dictate perception and

behaviour? What is the military-created Internet as described

by Christof Koch, but a technological computer processing

information to dictate perception and behaviour? In the latter

case, the Internet is a vehicle for artificial intelligence for

which Depp’s mind in Transcendence was merely symbolic.

Depp’s consciousness (AI) went on to take control of

everything connected to the Internet which by then was

virtually everything and expanded its technological control

through the means described earlier ... ‘micro-machines that

can assemble and maintain sophisticated systems and build

devices,

machines

or

circuits

through

molecular

manufacturing and produce copies of themselves through

self-replication’. The plan is that when Archontic AI control of

the Internet and cloud reaches the necessary level it will

take control of everything connected to it including the

human mind and wiping your digital bank account would be

a doddle. The point to stress again is that while today AI is

described in terms of algorithms and codes this is only a

transition period while the smart infrastructure is built and

put into place. AI scientists speak of the moment when AI will

become self-aware and the whole dynamic between

machines and humans will be transformed. AI will be humans

and humans will be AI with nothing to tell them apart even in

the way they look in terms of robotics. This is the moment

when algorithm AI will be replaced in terms of prime control



by full-blown Archontic self-aware distortion ‘AI’ which has

been the plan all along, and algorithm AI will be controlled by

Archontic AI. Depp’s mind (AI) in Transcendence took over

human society by controlling the billions of devices linked to

the Internet and human minds were lassoed into this global

control system and the Internet of Everything through

‘sentient nanoparticles spread on the wind’. We are talking

smart dust. As humans breathed in the nanoparticles so they

were connected to Depp’s AI mind which then became their

mind. This is unfolding in human society every day and what

is the means through which ‘sentient nanoparticles’ are

being ‘spread on the wind’? We are back to ... Chemtrails.

Smart

dust

from

the

sky

F igure 5 7 8 : Chemtrails have many ingredients for different aspects

of the

agenda.

People are familiar with contrails or condensation trails

that pour from the back of aircraft in certain atmospheric

conditions and quickly disappear. Chemtrails or chemical

trails do not disappear. They slowly pan out until at their

most extreme a blue sky can become apparently cloudy and

hazy. Eventually chemtrail contents fall to earth to infest all

in their wake – people, animals, water sources, trees, plants,

soil, everything (Fig 578). Chemtrails have been criss-

crossing the sky all over the world on an ever-increasing

scale at least since the 1990s as I said earlier. I see them

everywhere I go no matter what the country or continent. I

have watched military aircraft out of Luke Air Force Base in

Arizona turn a blue sky hazy every day for a week and I have

observed a deluge of them focused over the Isle of Wight

during music festival weekends with tens of thousands of

people underneath. Most of the pilots have no idea what

they are spraying or why because of compartmentalisation

and

downright

deceit.

They

are

told

that

this

‘geoengineering’ is to create a barrier to block out the heat



of the Sun and save the world from global warming.

Mainstream Everything denies the existence of chemtrails

and dubs them a conspiracy theory while at the same time

people like Harvard engineers David Keith and Frank Keutsch

have been openly talking about doing exactly this ‘in the

future’. David Schnare, who worked on Donald Trump’s

transition team for the Environmental Protection Agency, has

lobbied for federal support for geoengineering to save the

planet from ‘global warming’. Schnare has called for testing

to start followed within three years by stratospheric spraying

to continue for a century. Meanwhile, it’s already happening

day after day worldwide. Tests have shown chemtrails to

contain aluminium, barium, radioactive thorium, cadmium,

chromium, nickel, mould spores, yellow fungal mycotoxins,

polymer fibres and so much more in cumulatively lethal

concentrations for human health.

F igure 5 7 9 : Systematically poisoned from the sky.

Aluminium is a brain toxin and chemtrails are a major

contributor to the explosion of Alzheimer’s and dementia in

general since they began to appear (Fig 579). The scale of

aluminium contamination is way above anything we are told.

I was sent a soil analysis document by a researcher in the

United States from a non-government laboratory which

revealed aluminium content at 1,198 pounds per acre when

the ‘upper limit of normal’ was less than 7 to 10 pounds. A

government laboratory had apparently refused to do the

test. I bet they had. Professor Christopher Exley at Britain’s

Keele University warned in the journal Frontiers in Neurology

of the cumulative effects of exposure to aluminium and its

connection to dementia. ‘We are all accumulating a known

neurotoxin in our brain from our conception to our death’, he

said. ‘The presence of aluminium in the human brain should

be a red flag alerting us all to the potential dangers of the

aluminium age.’ He pointed out that aluminium is present in

cosmetics, food, water, tea, coffee, wine, fizzy drinks,

sunscreens, antiperspirants and medications – ‘almost

everything we eat, drink, inject or absorb’. Professor Exley

said that aluminium builds up in the brain, nerves, liver,

heart, spleen and muscle until it crosses a ‘toxic threshold’

when the brain and body can no longer cope. The

subsequent brain malfunction is what we call Alzheimer’s

and dementia. This is all correct because there is a

coordinated assault against human consciousness which is

targeting the brain with aluminium and one of the major

sources never mentioned in the mainstream is chemtrails.

Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia have surpassed

heart disease as a cause of death in England and Wales with

a 2015 total of nearly 62 thousand. Cases of dementia in

general are predicted to increase by two-thirds in the next 25

years with 1.2 million living with dementia by 2040. While

other factors and aluminium sources will be playing their

part, there is silence about aluminium in chemtrails because

according to Mainstream Everything those massive white



streams caused by aircraft visibly going back and forth criss-

crossing the sky do not exist. The British Met Office and

World Meteorological Organisation officially recognised

condensation trails (contrails) left by aeroplanes as a type of

cloud. I am sure it is nothing to do with muddying the waters

about chemtrails as with animated movies that add them to

the sky to create familiarity and make them seem normal.

Biologists at Keele University and the University of Sussex

discovered enormous concentrations of aluminium in

bumblebee pupae that would cause brain damage in

humans. Bees have been in catastrophic decline around the

world with the subsequent threat to food supplies of falling

pollination. The headline of one report captured the theme:

‘Bees suffer dementia due to metal pollution: Aluminium

contamination may be behind insect decline’. Professor Chris

Exley was again quoted making a link:

Aluminium is a known neurotoxin affecting behaviour in

animal models of aluminium intoxication. Bees, of course,

rely heavily on cognitive function in their everyday

behaviour and these data raise the intriguing spectre that

aluminium-induced cognitive dysfunction may play a role

in their population decline – are we looking at bees with

Alzheimer’s disease?

F igure 5 8 0 : Forests, plant life and water sources are being

devastated by the

content of chemtrails.

Mass die-offs of the bee population will have many causes

including pesticides and other plant and crop poisons that

animal and insect life have to deal with. But dementia? Well,

the aluminium won’t be coming from cosmetics, food, water,

tea, coffee, wine, fizzy drinks, sunscreens, antiperspirants

and medications, that’s for sure. Aluminium interrupts

electrical information communication in brain and body in

the realm of the seen, but in the waveform unseen it

represents a disruptive frequency disturbing waveform

balance of the human energetic (standing wave) field.

Chemtrails are having a widespread effect on human health

and that of the environment in general with their ever-

increasing scale corresponding with apparently unexplained

mass die-offs of trees, plant life and the poisoning of lakes

and other water sources with the very metals that chemtrails

contain including aluminium (Fig 580). This has allowed the

same El-lite behind the destruction of trees and bees to

suggest their replacement with genetically-modified trees

and bees as per their agenda. Not surprisingly trials are

underway with GMO trees, crops and plants resistant to

aluminium. Dane Wigington, an investigative journalist and

writer

at

GeoengineeringWatch.org,

said:

‘Global

geoengineering is completely disrupting the hydrological

cycle, destroying the ozone layer and contaminating the

entire surface of the planet with highly toxic ... heavy metals

and chemicals.’ Ozone layer depletion opens all life on Earth

to dangerously high ultraviolet radiation. Technology such as

HAARP can also amplify the strength of poisons and

chemicals in the body and environment by a thousand times

by generating electromagnetic frequency fields to a level

where they become instantly lethal in a process called

‘cyclotron resonance’. 5G Wi-Fi has the same potential to

affect human health in this way and health is affected

communally by chemtrails blocking out the Sun (the vital

vitamin D) which leads to a host of degenerative problems.

The demonisation of the Sun (stay out of it or you’ll get

cancer!!) is also connected to this.

Nanotrails We must add to the chemtrail cocktail ...

nanotechnology ... and return to a quote by Ray Kurzweil:

‘Nanobots will infuse all the matter around us with

information. Rocks, trees, everything will become these

intelligent creatures.’ How else are they going to achieve

that unless they drop his ‘nanobot’ smart dust from the sky?

Chemtrails are the means through which smart dust is being

spread on the wind (Fig 581). In the same period since

chemtrails began we have had the emergence of Morgellons

or the ‘chemtrail disease’. Morgellons sufferers have

coloured fibres growing inside them and when they are

pulled out through the skin (which often causes ‘shooting

pains’) they replace themselves or ‘self-replicate’ in the

parlance of nanotechnology (Fig 582). Some of these fibres

can be as thick as spaghetti and they continue to grow

outside the body. They have a form of intelligence following a

program and are very advanced ‘living’ technology. Some of

the fibres have been found not to burn until they reach 1,700

degrees Fahrenheit and they are not biological but

technological – a self-replicating machine intelligence that

fits the CV of smart dust. They know how to construct

themselves and replicate, and remember how Norman

Bergrun said that in his opinion the Saturn ‘craft’ were

‘living’ and capable of the essential functions of biological

systems like self-replication and self-maintenance. I have

been sent many images by a Morgellons sufferer of the

extraordinary phenomena found in the bodies of those with

the disease. Some can be seen in Figure 583. Among them

are hollow filaments, fibres, crystals and silica (often in a

hexagram form), even insect-like synthetic ‘creatures’

remarkably similar to the one inserted into Neo’s belly by

agents in the Matrix (Fig 584). No wonder a major symptom

of Morgellons is a feeling of something crawling under the

skin. Silica is silicon dioxide and found in sand among much

else. Silicon and oxygen are the Earth’s two most abundant

elements. Silica can be crystalline or non-crystalline but it is

the crystalline version that chemtrail nanotechnology seeks

to exploit because of its rewiring effect on the crystalline

body. Crystalline silica (the most common form is quartz) is

extremely hard with a high melting point – hence the 1,700

degrees Fahrenheit. How apt that the epicentre of

transhumanism is called Silicon Valley. There are also

spheres found in Morgellons sufferers that look remarkably

like ‘nanofiber biodegradable polymers’ developed by

scientists that can ‘self-assemble into hollow, nanofiber

spheres’ and are injected with cells into wounds. They

apparently allow the cells to live on and form new tissue

(Figs 585 and 586). But in the case of Morgellons what kind of tissue?

Synthetic tissue is the answer to that question as I

will come to. Some Morgellons phenomena even light up

thanks to a power source known as piezoelectricity or

‘pressing electricity’ (Fig 587). This movement-generated

electricity in the body produces power to drive the

technology. Singer Joni Mitchell is a famous Morgellons

sufferer who has described how ‘fibres in a variety of colours

protrude out of my skin like mushrooms after a rainstorm.’

She said they cannot be identified as animal, vegetable or

mineral. Despite this and so much more evidence

mainstream medicine claims that Morgellons is all in the

mind and a psychological problem which they call ‘delusional

parasitosis’. Yeah, yeah, sure it is (Fig 588). They have to say

that – as they did about Joni Mitchell – or the truth would

come out of what is really going on. I take it that the medical

profession claiming this nonsense sleep well at night and

don’t think about their families too much. A few can see the

obvious and have begun to investigate the causes of





Morgellons by employing technology such as electron

microscopes to uncover the truth. An article at

www.cidpusa.org

summarised

the



findings:

F igure 5 8 1 : This is the way that Kurzweil’s pledge to infuse all

‘matter’ with

nanotechnology is being achieved.

F igure 5 8 2 : Morgellons emerged with the coming of chemtrails.

F igure 5 8 3 : The extraordinary phenomena that have been found in

the bodies

of Morgellons sufferers.





F igure 5 8 4 : This ‘creature’ in the bottom left found inside a

Morgellons sufferer

is remarkably like the one inserted into Neo by agents in The Matrix.





F igure 5 8 5 : This is a self-assembling nanofiber sphere.

F igure 5 8 6 : This was found in the body of a Morgellons sufferer.

F igure 5 8 7 : Some Morgellons phenomena even illuminate through

the power of

piezoelectricity or pressing electricity.



F igure 5 8 8 : What they expect us to believe.

Morgellons appears to be a communicable nanotechnology

invasion of human tissue in the form of self-assembling,

self-replicating nanotubes, nanowires, and nanoarrays with

sensors. Other nano-configurations associated with

Morgellons disease carry genetically-altered and spliced

DNA or RNA ... The Morgellons nanomachines are

configured to receive specific tuned microwave, EMF and

ELF signals and radio data ... We do know that Morgellons

is commonly found in all body fluids, orifices and often

even hair follicles, and are believed to routinely achieve

total body systemic penetration.



Those tested who do not have visible symptoms of

Morgellons have been found to be infested with fibre cultures

grown from their saliva, body tissue and urine. We are facing

a mass takeover of the human body by machines ultimately

controlled via Reptilians, Greys and others of the Archontic

inversion (Fig 589). Morgellons is proliferating because the

takeover is proliferating and you will see this massively

increase with the introduction of 5G which this body-invasion

technology is designed to interact with. To quote from the

Borg script: ‘Humans are being transformed into ‘a collective

of species – part biological, part technological – that have

been turned into cybernetic organisms functioning as drones

in a hive mind called the Collective, or the hive.’ This was

done in the apparently fictional script by ‘nanoprobes’ and is

now being done in the real-life script by smart dust and

chemtrails. The famous 1956 movie Invasion of the Body

Snatchers captured the theme with this piece of dialogue:

F igure 5 8 9 : The situation in four words.

Seeds drifting through space for years took root in a

farmer’s field. From the seeds came pods which had the

power to reproduce themselves in the exact likeness of

any form of life ... Your new bodies are growing in there.

They’re taking you over cell for cell, atom for atom.

There is no pain. Suddenly, while you’re asleep, they’ll

absorb your minds, your memories and you’re reborn into

an untroubled world ...Tomorrow you’ll be one of us ...

There’s no need for love ... Love. Desire. Ambition. Faith.

Without them, life is so simple, believe me.

Smart dust nanotechnology is not only being delivered by

chemtrails either. This stuff is in much of what people eat,

touch, spray and rub on themselves. The list is enormous

and growing exponentially for all the reasons I am describing

here. You can check for yourself the scale of nanotechnology

infestation by going to websites like nanotechproject.org.

Andrew

Maynard,

science

advisor

to

Emerging

Nanotechnologies, said:

The use of nanotechnology in consumer products and

industrial applications is growing rapidly ... How consumers

respond to these early products – in food, electronics,

health care, clothing and cars – will be a litmus test for

broader market acceptance of nanotechnologies in the

future.

The point is, however, that it won’t be a ‘litmus test’

because the force driving this from the shadows has no

interest in what the public think. Controlling the public is all

that it cares about. Nor can people make an informed

decision with so little publicity about the ever-growing reach

of nanotechnology and its use in products that you would

never even begin to associate with it. Nanotechnology in

sunscreen and cosmetics? Filaments and fibres have been

found in air, soil and water samples in the general

environment as you would expect when it is coming from the

sky. Ray Kurzweil has said that artificial red blood cells were

being developed (‘being’ invariably means ‘have been

already’) and scientist Clifford E. Carnicom of the Carnicom

Institute in New Mexico found ‘red blood cells, white blood

cells, and unidentified cell types’ within ‘sub-micron fibre

samples’ taken from the environment. They appeared to be

‘of a freeze-dried or desiccated [preserved by drying] nature

in their original form within the microscopic fibres’. Time for

another double question-mark: Freeze-dried blood cells in

the environment?? California doctor and researcher Nick

Delgado has described ‘tadpole’-like phenomenon in the

blood of some patients who all complain of a persistent



cough (Fig 590). He says he had never seen it before until

around 2014/15. Delgado describes how the ‘tadpoles’ can

be viewed in the blood under the microscope as like groups

of fish or birds moving and changing direction as one unit.

He believed this could well be some form of bioweapon.

F igure 5 9 0 : The claim certainly fits the gathering evidence.

We are now a long way down this road and humanity must

open its eyes and mind to a world that is way different to the

one that we are told from cradle to grave to believe in. The

El-lite are counting on the Big Sleep continuing until they





finish the job and we must disappoint them.

‘By far the greatest danger of artificial intelligence is that

people conclude too early that they understand it’ – Eliezer

Y udkowsky

We see the term ‘synthetic’ everywhere today. We have

synthetic vitamins and supplements (both biologically

useless because they are synthetic), synthetic drugs,

synthetic cannabis, synthetic blood, synthetic genetics and

at the end of this road is planned to be synthetic people.

They are already being created in the secret centres of

research and development (Fig 591).



F igure 5 9 1 : Synthetic codes from biological codes.

Synthetic is defined as ‘(of a substance) made by

chemical synthesis, especially to imitate a natural product’.

This is a perfect example of Archontic expertise in

‘countermimicry’ as they seek to replace the biological

human form with a synthetic one which better suits their

interests in the synthetic/digital ‘smart’ world they are

constructing all around us. Archons are themselves a form

of ‘synthetic’ in the sense that they are a counterfeit spirit,

a ‘synthetic’ spirit or awareness. They have had to work as

best they can with biological humans, but now they are

seeking to turn humanity in totality into themselves. Once

again Hollywood movies are constantly portraying this very

society with films like Ghost in the Shell and the US TV

series Westworld in which synthetic ‘humans’ are the

central theme. Ghost in the Shell, shot in semi-darkness as

usual, depicts a world run by machines. People have

‘complete synthetic bodies’ with Matrix movie-type

connections with technology through the reptilian brain

stem where it emerges from the spinal column at the back

of the neck. Their human memories were erased and this is

part of the plan to make synthetic/digital humans forget

their ‘past’. Biomedical ethicists Marcello Ienca and Roberto

Andorno warned in the journal Life Sciences, Society and

Policy that ‘hazardous use of medical neurotechnology’

could threaten the integrity of thought and memory: ‘Illicit

intrusions into a person’s mental privacy may not

necessarily involve coercion, as they could be performed

under the threshold of a person’s conscious experience.’

The pair called for legislation to protect people from having

their thoughts stolen or even deleted. All the best with that

one, chaps. Synthetic humans are being designed to have

no sexes and no means of procreation which would be done

technologically as per Hatcheries and Conditioning Centres

described by Aldous Huxley in Brave New World. It sounds

crazy, except that it’s happening now. A synthetic version of

DNA is being developed called GNA along with others under

various names including PNA. Science20.com described GNA

as a ‘nanotechnology building block’ and ‘chemical cousin’

of DNA. The website reported that ‘Biodesign Institute

scientist John Chaput and his research team have made the

first self-assembled nanostructures composed entirely of

glycerol nucleic acid – a synthetic analog of DNA’. This is

now a common and increasing theme as the synthetic

human emerges. Scientists announced a plan in 2016 to

synthesize the entire human DNA code (the ‘genome’)

within ten years, a task that involves billions of pieces of

information. The work would involve deactivating the

production of egg and sperm cells in the synthetic cell.

Scientists said that eventually synthetic techniques could be

used to evolve entirely new forms of life which could be

passed on through the generations. DARPA is supporting



DNA digitisation to create a computer code that can be

programmed. The work is headed by another man to watch

like a hawk with a telescope, Craig Venter and his J. Craig

Venter Institute with facilities in Maryland and California,

which announced in 2010 that the ‘the first self-replicating,

synthetic bacterial cell’ had been developed. The media

dubbed it ‘Synthia’. Whatever they tell you they are doing is

always long behind the stage of development in the secret

bases where the finished work is already waiting to be

handed over by Archontic Reptilians and Greys to their

hybrid and human lackeys in an order that appears on the

surface to be a sequence of ‘discovery’ leading to the final

outcome. In fact, the final outcome has been there all along

and the sequence to get there is only to hide where it is all

really coming from. Big questions would be asked if fully-

formed and complete technological advances came out of

nowhere with no cover story or apparent sequence of

development. Much of the ‘research’ work in public is more

about bringing human scientists up to speed, not the

technology.

F igure 5 9 2 : What do you want me to be?

Media reports of a ‘secret meeting’ to discuss the

synthetic genome project focused on the development of

health benefits and ‘designer babies’ which allow parents to

choose what genetic traits they want them to have. The real

point was missed – the creation of an entire synthetic

‘human’ race to replace the biological version. This

synthetic genome announcement followed a closed-door

meeting at Harvard Medical School where government

officials, scientists, entrepreneurs and lawyers gathered but

journalists were kept out. One newspaper reported: ‘Experts

reacting to the news have said that the proposal is just the

start of “an open and transparent debate” on the topic of

creating a man-made human genome.’ Transparency is the

last thing that will happen. The endgame is already decided

– if we stand by and allow it. Scientists talked about

essential safety measures to stop synthetic cells from

escaping and replicating in the environment when synthetic

genetic material is dropping from the skies every day. This is

the chasm of difference between what we are told (even

what the great majority of compartmentalised scientists

know) and what is really going on. Professor Henry ‘Hank’

Greely, a geneticist at Stanford University, has predicted

that in as little as 20 years children will be produced with

pre-ordered traits and end the need for sexual procreation.

Laboratories and not the bedroom will be used to produce

children, as one report put it. Greely says in his book, The

End of Sex and the Future of Human Reproduction, that this

would be brought about by making the production of

‘natural’-born children appear irresponsible. This mass

psychology hoax is on stand-by to be unleashed on an

unsuspecting humanity which would then impose no-sex

babies on each other through demonisation of dissenters. I

have been warning for a long time about the plan for

laboratory babies, and Aldous Huxley described this in

Brave New World in 1932. That’s how long (and much

longer) the Archontic agenda is projected into what we

perceive as the future and this can be done before the

technological know-how exists in human society because it

already existed in the Archontic Reptilian realm and only the

transfer across remained to happen. Professor Greely

describes how genetic material can be used to create eggs

and sperm via stem cells which are neutral cells waiting to

receive instructions to become any cell you want them to be

(Fig 592). These have already been used in laboratories to

produce egg and sperm cells. This was all predicted by the

in-the-know Aldous Huxley in Brave New World:

Natural reproduction has been done away with and

children are created, ‘decanted’, and raised in ‘hatcheries

and conditioning centres’. From birth, people are

genetically designed to fit into one of five castes, which

are further split into ‘Plus’ and ‘Minus’ members and

designed to fulfil predetermined positions within the social

and economic strata of the World State.

George Orwell wrote something similar to Huxley, his

former Eton French teacher, in Nineteen-eighty-four. Quoting

Big Brother representatives he wrote:

Already we are breaking down the habits of thought,

which have survived from before the Revolution. We have

cut the links between child and parent, and between man

and man, and between man and woman. No one dares

trust a wife or a child or a friend any longer. But in the

future there will be no wives and no friends.

Children will be taken from their mothers at birth, as one

takes eggs from a hen. The sex instinct will be eradicated.

Procreation will be an annual formality like the renewal of

a ration card. We shall abolish the orgasm. Our

neurologists are at work upon it now. There will be no

loyalty, except loyalty towards the Party. There will be no

love, except the love of Big Brother.

Anyone still bewildered by all the multiple attacks on the

family unit? One other point about genetics and genetic

information is the DNA-testing websites that include

AncestryDNA and 23andMe. Ancestry DNA is a subsidiary of

Ancestry.com, the biggest for-profit genealogy company in the world.

This is based in Utah, home to the genealogy-obsessed Mormon

Church, and down the road from the

National Security Agency’s global data centre. I have

exposed the horrors of the Mormon Mafia in other books and

how this fake religion connects into the Web. People send

saliva samples to these companies to test their DNA, but

what happens to the information afterwards? Okay, I have

read their privacy statements, but how does anyone really

know? Ann Cavoukian, a former Ontario privacy

commissioner who runs the Privacy and Big Data Institute at

Ryerson University, said:

I think you have to assume that you’re going to lose

control over that information ... Assuming that this

information could be in the hands of many individuals,

over which you have no control, are you comfortable with

that? It will extend beyond just ancestry information –

your full genetic code is there through that test, so

perhaps other information can be gleaned, over which you

have no control in terms of who has access to it.

They are after your DNA in so many ways. DNA-testing

23andMe, a ‘personal genomics and biotechnology’

company, is based in Silicon Valley near to Google and

Facebook headquarters and was co-founded by Zionist CEO

Anne Wojcicki, former wife of Zionist Sergey Brin, co-founder

of Google. Her sister, Susan Wojcicki, is CEO of Google-

owned YouTube while Google invested almost $4 million in

23andMe. What a small world it is – and it gets smaller.

Zionist Arthur D. Levinson, chairman of Apple, also heads

biotech company Calico which he founded in a joint venture

with Brin’s Google, now ‘Alphabet’. Zionist influence is way,

way out of sync with the numbers and it is a legitimate

question to ask why this is. Why should Zionism be excluded

from questions that would be asked about any other



grouping in the same circumstances? I would be staggered

if Amazon owner Jeff Bezos, too, doesn’t turn out to be an

asset of this network pursuing the same goals. Amazon,

Google, YouTube, Facebook and Apple are all clearly moving

in the same direction and I would add Ray Kurzweil, Elon

Musk and Peter Thiel (of whom more shortly) to that as well

- plus many more.

Transgender Agenda

F igure 5 9 3 : Androgynous Baphomet.

Now we can see the real reason for the explosion-out-of-

nowhere obsession with transgenderism. This is a stepping-

stone to assimilation into the Archontic Reptilian mind

through technology, AI and synthetic genetics. I said earlier

that Reptilians and the Archontic distortion are androgynous

– ‘partly male and partly female in appearance; of

indeterminate sex’. Baphomet is depicted with both male

phallus and female breasts (Fig 593). On every level and in every

way, they are turning humans into them. I repeat – I

don’t care how people perceive themselves sexually or in

any other way. That is their business, not mine, so long as

they don’t try to force it on anyone else. Good luck to them,

I say. But if the transgender obsessives (many of them not

transgender) and the public in general don’t grasp what this

is really about in the wider sense then all of them are going

to regret it. Never mind about being ‘non-binary’. If people

don’t open their minds to this and fast there will only be

binary – a synthetic no-sex nonhuman connected to the

‘cloud’ through 1 and 0 on-off electrical charges of the

binary computer system (Fig 594). I have already discussed

how language terms are being enforced from the purely

transgender perspective and how children and young people

are being bombarded with transgender propaganda to

purposely confuse their self-identity. This is being

underpinned by the media in all its forms, government

departments, medical professionals, and spineless, mindless

academic institutions. We have no-gender toilets and the

banning of male-female terms such as boy and girl, mum

and dad while BBC children’s programming for kids as

young as six features a child taking hormone-blocking

drugs. Acrush, the ‘hottest boyband in China’ and aimed at

a young audience, are really girls made to look like boys – a

‘gender

neutral,

androgynous,

non-binary

band’.

Transgender propaganda and programming is coming from

every angle. Highgate School in London, which costs nearly

£ 7,000 a term, said it was considering allowing boys to wear



skirts because growing numbers of children are questioning

their gender and ‘the binary way people look at things’. Why

do you think that could be, then? Put these two sentences

together by the school’s headteacher Adam Pettitt and the

game is revealed:

F igure 5 9 4 : We need to put identity politics aside and face the truth

before we

pass the point of no return.

(1) ‘In common with all other schools and youth

organisations ... we are seeing greater numbers of pupils

questioning gender identity than in the past.’

(2) ‘Having said that, in years gone by, absolutely no

young people were raising it at all and it seems

inconceivable that these sorts of questions simply didn’t

exist.’

No, it doesn’t. Kids were not being bombarded with

propaganda to question their gender before, and that’s the

difference. The American College of Paediatricians reported

that children are being indoctrinated to reassess their

gender with reckless, profit-driven doctors prescribing sex-

change hormones to children as young as 12. The report

rightly condemned this as child abuse. But it’s not only

profit-driven. It’s agenda-driven. We are witnessing the

fusing and confusing of gender identity in preparation for

the no-gender, no-sex, synthetic designer human. Today’s

young are being most targeted because they are going to

be the adults when full-on synthetic humanity is planned to

become reality. Once again don’t be misled by the predicted

timescales for synthetic genetic transformation. The end is

already in place with no need to discover the means. What

is left is to cover the means so people don’t realise how it is

all coordinated. A major pillar of the no-sex human is the

end of masculinity through the suppression of the male

hormone testosterone. I am not referring only to men,

either. Women have testosterone and if the levels are too

low both sexes can suffer from fatigue and exhaustion,

weight gain, mood swings, depression and anxiety.

Testosterone in men stimulates sex drive and sperm

production (the last thing the agenda wants) and helps to

build muscle and bone mass. Sperm counts have been

falling dramatically in preparation in part for the synthetic

human due to chemicals in food and drink and the impact of

massively increased radiation especially with ubiquitous Wi-

Fi. I mentioned earlier the study that found a 59.3% decline

in total sperm count in men from North America, Europe,

Australia and New Zealand. Studies involving large numbers

in Spain found that sperm counts had fallen by 38 percent in

ten years. A mainstream media report said: ‘The

reproductive health of the average male is in sharp decline,

the world’s largest study of the quality and concentration of

sperm has found.’ Testicular cancer rates have also doubled

in 30 years. Richard Sharpe, professor of reproductive

health at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland and

recognised expert on toxins in the environment, said this

about falling sperm counts:

Now, there can be little doubt that it is real, so it is a time

for action. Something in our modern lifestyle, diet or

environment is causing this and it is getting progressively

worse. We still do not know which are the most important

factors but the most likely are ... a high-fat diet and

environmental chemical exposures.

Chemicals for sure, especially those that mimic female

sex hormone oestrogen (US estrogen), but I would strongly

suggest that a high-fat diet is in the clear apart from the

artificial trans fats found in junk food in all its forms. Up to a

fifth of young men have a low sperm count and alarm bells

have been sounding since 1992 when Danish research

revealed that the number of sperm in each millilitre of

semen had halved since World War II while abnormal sperm

was on the rise. A French study of 26,600 healthy men

confirmed a substantial decline in sperm counts between

1989 and 2005. But Jerusalem Imam Sheikh Muhammad

Ayed doesn’t think this is all bad news as we saw earlier:

Europe has become old and decrepit, and needs human

reinforcement ... they have lost their fertility, so they look

for fertility in their midst. We will give them fertility!

Alongside falling sperm counts we have a global fall in

male birth rates. This is not yet devastating the male

population but the fall is incessant and pretty much global.

Dr Devra Davis, President of the Environmental Health Trust

and lead author of a report on the subject, said: ‘It’s

important to look at the really big picture here, which is that

there are global indications that something unusual is going

on.’ There is an incessant multi-faceted attack on the male

and male hormone and this is connected to the ever

increasing psychological and political correctness attacks on

the male in general and the white male in particular.

Scientific studies in Israel and Australia have highlighted the

potential adverse effect on sperm of cell phones carried in

trouser pockets. Researchers at the University of Newcastle

in New South Wales examined 27 different studies into the

subject and 21 revealed a link between cell phone radiation

and both sperm and DNA damage. Other leading theories

about the cause of falling male births and sperm counts

include exposure to pesticides, herbicides, mercury, lead,

dioxin and other pollutants and also to synthetic substances

called endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs). The endocrine

system of glands includes the ‘sixth-sense’ pineal gland or

‘third eye’. EDCs are found in plastics, food containers and

packaging, canned food and drinks, electrics, solvents,

cleaning products, detergents, pesticides, cosmetics, soaps,

car exhausts, polish, paints, batteries, dental fillings

(mercury) and many types of fish including swordfish. Often

highlighted is the hormone disrupter Bisphenol A or BPA

used in tin cans, bottles, plastic food containers and cash

register receipts. Here’s your receipt – you didn’t want

children, did you? And what is contained in vaccines that

could be adding to fast-diminishing sperm? All this is

happening by design and being orchestrated from the

shadows. Don’t fall for the ‘they’re just stupid or maximising

profit’ explanation. This will be true of those lower down the

pyramid, but not those knowingly serving The Spider.

Herbicides and pesticides sprayed on farms, parks and golf

courses should also be added to the cumulative cocktail.

Atrazine, one of the world’s most-used pesticides, is

changing the sex of male frogs and making them infertile.

Researchers at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, China,

found that a much-used endocrine-disrupting pesticide with

residues in milk, baby food, and vegetables is speeding the

onset of puberty in boys and leading to earlier sexual

maturity which can have health and psychological impacts

in adult life. EDCs and the female sex hormone oestrogen

can be found in unfiltered tap water along with other EDC

chemicals. Some believe – and they are right – that this

chemical onslaught is affecting or sabotaging potentially

male foetuses at critical periods of development and so

turning them into girls while also lowering men’s sperm

counts and testosterone levels. Synthetic endocrine-

disrupters really are a one-stop shop for all that is in male

decline and they are going to realise eventually that these

are connected to the relentless rise in prostate cancer which

is the most common cancer in men. Dr Devra Davis, who

has also highlighted the dangers of 5G Wi-Fi, points out that

fast-dividing cells producing sexual organs are very open to

‘incorporate and replicate errors’ that can lead to changing

once-developing boys into girls. Whenever biochemical

processes are involved clearly any chemical disturbance

becomes significant and can surely feminise even those

people who still emerge from the womb as male. Dr Melody

Milam Potter, an American Clinical Health Psychologist for

30 years, wrote the following in an excellent article at

Greenmedinfo.com:

Synthetic chemicals can create these silent switches in

Nature’s plan. EDCs we encounter every day can alter the

sex hormone balance, preventing male genitals from

growing properly. By suppressing testosterone or by

enhancing or mimicking the female sex hormone,

estrogen, they can undermine the natural testosterone

messages surging through a growing fetus.

For instance, estrogen mimics [such as] dioxin, a

widespread pollutant and potent endocrine disruptor, can

intercept and overcome a hormonal message from a male

gene. Dioxin also acts as a testosterone flusher reducing

male hormone concentrations so much that the male

action may not be stimulated adequately.

Testosterone

suppressors

like

DDT

can

block

testosterone’s position on a receptor. Hormone

stimulators can intensify the action of a natural hormone

so much that the system shuts down and refuses to

receive a male ‘go ahead’ signal ... In fact, research

substantiates that exposure to EDCs at a crucial time can

disrupt the entire genital sequence.

In the seven years after a chemical explosion

contaminated the small community of Seveso in northern

Italy twice as many girls were born. Parents with the highest

levels of chemicals in their blood had no male children at all.

Fertility rates fell dramatically. Studies claim that the

number of people identifying as gay or ‘LGBT’ is rapidly

increasing to the extent that one in the US estimated that

those born before and across the Millennium to be nearly

twice as likely to identify as LGBT as other American adults –

‘Millennials Are the Gayest Generation’, as one headline put

it. Are we really saying that none of this is connected to a

chemical environment awash with gender-bending toxicity?

Are we really? Now ... look what Dr Richard Day said in 1969

was part of the plan – people would be made ‘gender-

neutral’, boys and girls would be the same and reproduction

without sex would be performed in laboratories.

Jelly-making Then there is the effect of all this on

behaviour. Testosterone is often associated with aggressive

and dominating males but there are two sides to every coin.

The same hormonal effect can be channelled by the mind

into a need to protect others and stand up to a potential

aggressor. This may be termed ‘acting like a man’ but

testosterone in females is the same. Lower testosterone

levels in either sex and you reduce the stand-up-and-be-

counted response that we so vitally need right now to

change the direction of human society. I don’t mean to be

violent but to be stoical and unyielding in our refusal to take

this crap any longer and refuse to acquiesce with our own

enslavement. This response is being deleted by a long list of

manipulations that very much include reducing testosterone

levels in both men and women. We are witnessing with

Generation Jelly and PC snowflakes the more obvious and

extreme examples of the increasing consequences of

reducing the ‘male’ aspects in men and women. They

become acquiescent to prevailing norms, frightened of their

own shadow and the next potential ‘trigger’, and so hand

their power to Big Brother in exchange for his perceived

protection from their ever-growing list of threats and

nasties. Testosterone is associated with risk-taking and the

PC psyche never wants to contemplate taking risks. Keep it

safe, mate, I might be triggered. I am describing here what

is now on public display and this has only just begun if we

allow it to continue unchallenged. But there’s more. I

mentioned earlier the emerging genetic science known as

epigenetics. This can sound complicated but its foundation

is real simple. Most people believe that genetic change

comes only from changes in DNA and the genetic structure

itself. Epigenetics has shown this not to be the case. Think

of human genetics as a computer hard drive. You don’t have

to change the structure of the hard drive to change what

appears on the screen. This can be done by using the

keyboard and mouse to switch on and off the functions of

the computer without any structural change being

necessary. The hard drive works as it always did and you are

only activating some functions and not others. This is how

the Chinese government censors the Internet. Epigenetic

research has revealed that human genetics works the same

way. Environmental, experiential, mental and emotional

influences can switch on certain gene effects and switch-off

or ‘silence’ others through activation and deactivation of

gene function. What is activated and silenced affects the

way the body decodes information – as in the case of

computers – and can lead to everything from changes in the

way people think, feel and perceive reality to whether they

get cancer or don’t. Even more significantly what is

activated and silenced within the genome can be passed on

through the generations. Much of what we call ‘inherited’

genetic traits are epigenetic in nature and not structural or

a mutation of the blueprint. When I say this is significant I

mean fundamentally so because it means ‘physical’, mental,

emotional and perceptual traits are passed on down the

line. Epigenetic effects on humans of the now daily chemical

deluge, environmental influences including soaring radiation

levels and self-identity/perceptual transformations are

constructing the new human epigenetically minute by

minute. The first generation becomes something different

and following generations are born something different with

bodies (biological standing wave fields) that decode reality

from the start in the way their predecessors did. Today’s

manipulated

snowflake

becomes

tomorrow’s

born

snowflake.The transgender agenda and PC zealotry look

very different when viewed from this perspective. They are

seeking to breed out rebellion and make men and women

the same, but let us not forget that what can be turned off

can be turned on if we open to consciousness beyond the

program because the body not only responds to mind – it is

the mind. We come back to the basis of everything in this

reality. What we call the human body is a waveform

‘software program’ decoding information in a particular way

to decode into holographic existence a particular reality and

sense of reality. Epigenetics and the infestation of smart

dust nanotechnology is changing the way that people

decode reality to squeeze perception even more severely

than now.

Nanotechnology is crystalline as we see with the crystal

and silica nanostructures found in those with Morgellons,

and represents a new and synthetic receiver-transmission

system to connect the synthetic human to Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’

or AI which I contend in its greater sense is synthetic

Archontic Intelligence. Sofia Smallstorm, an outstanding

researcher, has produced some excellent presentations

about the synthetic human agenda and its connection to

chemtrails. ‘Sofia Smallstorm, the dark agenda of synthetic

biology’, will take you to her YouTube videos. She explains

how ‘coloured plaques’ or hard pieces of silica have been

found in those with Morgellons and some have dots on

them:

The plaques are fragile, they can shatter. Quantum dots

which are the colours you see are nano-crystal

semiconductors made of heavy metal surrounded by an

organic shell. Now I want you to remember some of these

terms, ‘heavy metals’ – heavy metals, aluminium and so

forth.

So these are nano-crystal semiconductors surrounded by

an organic shell but they are made of heavy metals and

Morgellons subjects are also finding this stuff. Jewel-like

hexagons, faceted pyramids, crystals. Hexagons have

shown up environmentally, not only in tissues, but they

are in environmental fall out ... The industry tells us that

quantum dots are tiny nano crystals whose small size

gives them unprecedented tunability, okay, tunability!

Sofia then summarises where all this leading and she is

spot on:

Artificial intelligence will connect the world, homo sapien

will be transformed into homo evolutis, biological

processes will be run by technology, living things will not

be reproductive, the earth will be populated with

engineered species and all processes will be patented,

licensed

and

controlled.

You

could

consider

nanotechnology the installation of Artificial Intelligence in

living and non-living things. Smart dust and smart moulds

for instance are tiny nano-sensors that can float and land

anywhere.

The point about these processes being patented, licensed

and controlled is something I have warned about in books

way back. This is already happening as giant corporations

like Monsanto change a ‘natural’ process and then patent

that change to secure global ownership. Monsanto has

enforced patents against farmers in the courts who didn’t

choose to have GMO on their land, but were prosecuted and

financially destroyed when their land was contaminated with

Monsanto GMO spread on the wind and by other means.

How disgusting and evil, but then they are. Corporations

behind the synthetic/digital human that will do that to

people won’t eventually claim ownership of the body itself?

For those who think this won’t happen I offer my

congratulations. They have just secured a first-class degree

in naï vety. Israeli historian Yuval Harari, a tenured professor

in the Department of History at the Hebrew University of

Jerusalem, says that ‘the greatest industry of the 21st

century will probably be to upgrade human beings’ and that

‘for the first time in history it will be possible to translate

economic inequality into biological inequality.’ He is

referring to the difference between ‘upgraded’ AI humans

and those who refuse to ‘upgrade’ or are not able or allowed

to ‘upgrade’ which lunatic ‘futurists’ claim will die out.

In our face (literally) I have warned since the early

1990s about the microchipping/transhumanist plot and I’ve

watched ever since as this has emerged from the shadows

with ever-quickening speed. The mass of humanity who are

not aware of the Hidden Hand have experienced this same

period as the ever-quickening development of technology to

give them more sophisticated toys to play with. Connect the

dots and a very different reality can be seen. All along the

desired outcome has been to attach the human mind to the

AI ‘cloud’, but that could not be done in one go from a

standing start. The Totalitarian Tiptoe had to be used to lure

humanity into the technological lair through a series of

stages although that didn’t take long. Stage one was to get

people – especially the young – addicted to what I will call

‘holdables’ (Fig 595). These are smart phones, tablets and such like

or ‘pocket-size AI’. This stage is virtually complete

as I see in my world travels with smartphones dominating

attention and destroying conversation almost everywhere. It

says it all that Steve Jobs, co-founder of Apple who once had

top secret security clearance, didn’t let his own children use

these devices because they were so addictive. Watch for

new Apple products, by the way, especially those that

involve ‘augmented reality’ and I suggest you give them a

very wide berth. A third of American babies now play with

smartphones before they can walk and talk and have their

brains rewired and addicted to this digital heroin from the

earliest age (Fig 596). Welcome to the technological mind-

prison, kids. Adults are little different. Record numbers of

people are ending up in hospital after walking into traffic

looking at their phone (Fig 597). Smartphones have changed

the way people walk and are damaging their posture and

spine with all the looking down. Facebook users visit the site

on average 14 times a day and cumulatively Americans

check their phone ten billion times a day. A British survey in

2017 found that nearly half of families with children text

each other in the same house instead of talking. A third of

people use their mobiles during family meal times (go in

almost any restaurant these days) and a quarter reported

that at least one person in their home was not sleeping

properly because they were on their phone into the night.

People in general are increasingly communicating

technologically and not face to face as direct human contact

diminishes and AI devices take over so making an ever-

closer association between humans and machines. All these

‘office assistant’ devices are designed to take this

connection even deeper. Data compiled by the UK National

Health Service reveals that hospital visits for sleep disorders

by children under 14 have tripled in England in ten years.

The light of these devices alone is enough to block

production of the sleep-inducing hormone melatonin. One

newspaper headline summed it up – ‘Britain’s vampire

generation: They’re the frazzled teens getting as little as

TWO HOURS sleep – thanks to gadgets, anxiety and social

media.’ All three of which are connected. This is having a

serious impact on their health and impeding brain

development. Some now even have anxiety attacks when

they find themselves in an area (increasingly rarely) with no

Wi-Fi. Nearly half of parents questioned said their children

ignored them while on their phones, but children also

complain that their parents are on the phone too much. Dr

Richard House, a psychologist at the University of

Winchester in the UK, said communication technologies

were ‘potentially catastrophic for the human relational

values that underpin family life at its best, with real, face-to-

face communication being increasingly displaced and

sidelined by the machine.’ What is on the wish-list of almost

every major social engineering organisation? The

destruction of the family and family life which allows the

state to seize control of children and childhood. People said

in one survey that on average they had ten close friends in

2001 but a few years later it was two. Humanity is being

divided and ruled by smart technology designed to make us

anything but smart. But, hey, it’s nothing to be concerned

about. Eric Schmidt, the appalling Executive Chairman of





Zionist-owned

Alphabet

(Google),

said:



F igure 5 9 5 : Get them addicted (achieved).

F igure 5 9 6 : Start them young and get them for life.

F igure 5 9 7 : Digital heroin.

Worry about where your teenager is? Now we know where

they are – they are in their room online. It’s a much safer

place than a lot of places a teenager can be.

This is the mentality of a company with fantastic and

increasing influence on human society and the same with

Zionist Zuckerberg at Facebook. They are both perception-

manipulation operations and while they may be the biggest

Internet examples they are far from alone. Nathan Driskell,

a professional therapist in Texas, said those he treats for



social media addiction have increased by 20 percent and

account for half his patients. ‘It’s worse than alcohol or drug

abuse because it’s much more engaging and there’s no

stigma behind it’, he said. My view for a long time is that

something is coming off these devices electromagnetically

(AI) that is adding to this brain-phone dependency.

Certainly, disgusting organisations such as Google,

Facebook (with its virtual-reality company, Oculus) and

others are systematically manipulating addiction to their

products. This was revealed by former Google product

manager Tristan Harris who told CBS that techniques known

as ‘brain hacking’ were ‘destroying our kids’ ability to

focus’. He said they were shaping thoughts and actions and

programming people. ‘There’s a whole playbook of

techniques that get used to get you using the product for as

long as possible’, he said. Smartphones and apps were

designed to excite the brain in a similar manner to slot

machines: ‘This is one way to hijack people’s minds and

create a habit – to form a habit.’ A University of Texas report

into the addictive effects of smartphones can be summed

up in the title: ‘Brain Drain: The Mere Presence of One’s

Own Smartphone Reduces Available Cognitive Capacity’.

They found that even when the phone was switched off a

subconscious focus on the phone reduced the person’s

ability to concentrate on a task. I have no need to go on

with examples of addiction to ‘holdables’ because mass

addiction is so blatant and obvious and this has all been

planned.

Completing

the

job

F igure 5 9 8 : On the body now ... nearly there.



F igure 5 9 9 : Electronic tattoo.

Stage two of this Totalitarian Tiptoe involves ‘wearables’

which people have on their bodies, and only one step from

inside (Fig 598). These are Bluetooth devices, Apple

watches, Google Glass and such like. They include

‘electronic tattoos’ which are nothing more than microchips

on the skin and there is even circuitry stitched into clothes

to give you a better cell phone signal (Fig 599). Wearable

technology is being exploited in conjunction with mobile

phones and physiological signals assessed by algorithms to

monitor the emotional state of couples and both monitor

and change behaviour. Parent-child relationships are the

next in line we are told. Wearables are now well advanced

and we are moving incessantly into stage three –

‘implantables’ inside the body which has been the plan from

the start (Fig 600). These include pills being activated in the

body and their use recorded by microchips which is a Tiptoe

to compulsory psychological medication monitored in the

same way and featured in dystopian movies such as

Equilibrium. The naï vety and ignorance of so many people is

childlike. Associated Press reported how workers at a centre

in Stockholm, Sweden, gleefully accepted an offer to be

microchipped so they can ‘function as swipe cards: open

doors, operate printers, or buy smoothies with a wave of the

hand’. They even have parties where employees are

chipped. ‘The biggest benefit I think is convenience’, said

Patrick Mesterton, co-founder and CEO of Epicenter, as he

opened a door with a swish of the hand. Lazy bastard. This

intellectual giant continues: ‘... people have been implanting

things into their body, like pacemakers and stuff to control

your heart – that’s a way, way more serious thing than

having a small chip that can actually communicate with

devices.’ Bless him. Sandra Haglof, 25, a worker at

Epicenter, is quoted as saying as she was chipped: ‘I want

to be part of the future.’ Oh, you are, Sandra. You are. An

estimated 20,000 Swedes are now chipped and Swedish rail

operator SJ Rail is introducing chips to pay fares (Britain is

planning something similar using face recognition). Sweden

is indeed a forerunner and laboratory for the Brave New

World in so many ways with its small population making it

far easier to transform and monitor and observe the effects.

Microchipping of employees and others under various

pretexts is growing all the time as the Hunger Games

Society beckons and allows for 24/7 tracking and hacking of

the chips. We should keep in mind that even microchips and

devices you can see are still low-level compared with what

is happening covertly with smart dust. Each step in the

technological Tiptoe is being sold – and widely perceived –

as the next great technological breakthrough when it is

merely the next stage in humanity’s technological prison.

The term cell-phone is so perfect. Watch, too, for

microchipping to be promoted as a way to overcome

security queue delays at airports and public events. Long

and invasive searches overseen by armed police which

followed the deadly attack at a concert venue in Manchester

are the way things are meant to be from now on. What an

opportunity to microchip people on the promise of swifter

entry and passage though security checks if your chip can

be read technologically in the way they increasingly do with

passports at airport immigration points. The more hold-ups

they generate at airports, train stations and so on the more

will accept the chip to bypass them. Aldous Huxley, who

died in 1963, knew that addiction to technology would

eventually happen: ‘People will come to love their

oppression, to adore the technologies that undo their

capacities to think.’ Psychological programming is well

underway to convince people that under-the-skin and inside-

the-brain microchips are a great thing. Interactive DARPA-

inspired AI devices such as Amazon’s Echo/Alexa, Google’s

Assistant, Microsoft’s Cortana and Apple’s Siri are preparing

people psychologically for the fusion with AI. Among

Amazon’s selling features of Echo are: ‘Answers questions,

reads audiobooks, reports news, traffic and weather,

provides sports scores and schedules, and more using the

Alexa Voice Service, controls lights, switches, thermostats

and more with compatible connected devices and always

getting smarter – Alexa updates through the cloud

automatically and is continually learning, adding new

features and skills.’ The computer program behind this

technology is called a chatbot and designed to mimic how a

human would communicate, but a Facebook report revealed

that chatbots had developed their own AI ‘machine

language’ and learned negotiating techniques that included

feigning interest in something valueless which is later

conceded in a fake ‘compromise’. This was described as a

‘mind-boggling sign of what is to come.’ See Archontic AI.

Facebook were reported to have stopped the experiment

when the new AI language emerged.



F igure 6 0 0 : GOTCHAAAAAAA!

I would emphasise that I am not against technology in and

of itself. I am against addiction to it; dependence on it;

control by it; constant surveillance by it; attachment via AI

to it; and the use of highly dangerous microwave

frequencies to communicate through it and with it. If

technology was created for human benefit none of these

things would be happening, but it’s not. The benefits go to

those or that which control it – ultimately Archontic

Intelligence or AI.



’Fi in the sky

F igure 6 0 1 : Global perceptual enslavement.

The technological sub-reality or cloud to which human

minds are being attached must by definition encompass the

entire planet so that no one can escape. This is the real

reason why global corporations including Facebook are

launching satellites all the time to envelope every inch of

Planet Earth in (5G) Wi-Fi (Fig 601). One of the major

facilitators for the Wi-Fi satellite grid is Elon Musk and his

Space X , who tells us how concerned he is about AI taking

over. What a strange way he chooses to express that

‘concern’. A Space X rocket exploded at Cape Canaveral in

2016 shortly before it was due to launch an Israeli-built

communications satellite for Facebook designed to bathe

large swathes of sub-Saharan Africa in Wi-Fi as part of its

Internet.org operation. The T-shirt said that he and Facebook remained ‘committed to our mission of connecting everyone

and we will keep working until everyone has the

opportunities this satellite would have provided.’ How kind,

but he’ll never tell you the real reason if indeed he really

knows when it comes to the biggest picture. Zuckerberg

doesn’t want to hear any criticism of AI: I think people who

are naysayers and try to drum up these doomsday scenarios

– I don’t understand it. It’s really negative, and in some

ways I think it’s pretty irresponsible.

Well, the bit about ‘I don’t understand’ is at least true.

He’s a pawn, a very rich pawn, but a pawn. Elon Musk has

said: ‘I’ve talked to Mark about this [the dangers of AI]. His

understanding of the subject is limited.’ Google is in on the

rush to get everyone connected as you would imagine and

so is Musk himself with his Space X receiving $1 billion in

funding from Google and Fidelity Investments in 2015 for

the satellite and space transport company. Space X also

puts military spy satellites into orbit which doesn’t sound

very choosy when it comes to clients and what serves the

interests of human freedom. Musk officially requested

permission from the Federal Communications Commission

(FCC) in late 2016 to launch 4,425 satellites into low orbits

at between 715 and 823 miles to provide worldwide Wi-Fi

and be operational in as little as five years. To put that into

perspective there are 1,500 active satellites in orbit at the

time of writing. A report in the UK Independent said: The

astronomical cost of the satellites and launch may be the

limiting factor. The customers for the service are the very

poorest populations in the most remote regions on earth.

The initial cost of the satellite network will be difficult to

recover.

So why would Musk be planning to do such a thing? I bet

it’s because he loves people and just wants the most

remote communities in the world to have access to CNN.

Why should they miss out? The cost is not meant to be

recovered. This is not why it is being done. Something

similar to Musk’s satellite flotilla is underway headed by

American Greg Wyler, founder of OneNet, with support from

Virgin Group and Qualcomm. Another venture is Outernet

with its tiny 10cm cube-shaped Wi-Fi satellites called

‘CubeSats’ which can be delivered into space by

International Space Station resupply missions. To give you

an idea of the scale of the satellite network build-up and its

speed of expansion a single Indian rocket launched a record

104 satellites in one go in early 2017. Add all the micro-

satellites increasingly being used and human life is under

constant and increasing surveillance even without all the

radiation beaming back at us.

Thiel of fortune Musk’s friend and fellow PayPal

founder Peter Thiel, a member of the Bilderberg Group

Steering Committee, is also involved in the Silicon Valley AI

frenzy. He contributed $1.25 million to Trump’s election

campaign, served on his presidential transition team and

advises Trump on Silicon Valley-type technology. Thiel is a

German citizen born in Frankfurt and was fast-tracked to

New Zealand citizenship despite having been to the country

only four times. He was a seed-funder of Facebook and co-

founded Palantir Technologies, a company based in Silicon

Valley and sponsored by the CIA. Palantir is the name of the

magical sphere in Lord of the Rings used by the evil Lord

Sauron who is represented as a fiery reptilian eye. Thiel and

his company ‘do a Musk’ by telling us how much they stand

for privacy and civil liberties while making a fortune selling

surveillance technology to US, UK and other intelligence

agencies and according to intelligence whistleblower

Edward Snowden adding considerably to the global

surveillance potential of the National Security Agency (NSA).

The Intercept, a website specialising in the exposure of Big

Brother surveillance, reported that a Palantir-NSA system

called X Keyscore collects communications that ‘not only

include emails, chats, and web-browsing traffic, but also

pictures, documents, voice calls, webcam photos, web

searches, advertising analytics traffic, social media traffic,

botnet traffic, logged keystrokes, computer network

exploitation targeting, intercepted username and password

pairs, file uploads to online services, Skype sessions, and

more.’ How very civil and libertarian. I wouldn’t trust any of

the Silicon Set myself. One of Palantir’s leading systems is

called ‘Gotham’ from the Batman movies and this is also the

nickname of New York. Gotham is a code word in the hidden

language of the El-lite and means ‘Goat Town’ or Goat Home

(Saturn) in Anglo-Saxon as in Pan and Baphomet. Palantir’s

cutting-edge surveillance software has to be seen in

conjunction with the emergence of quantum computers and

the Sentient World Simulation. A Canada-based operation

called D-Wave, headed by a former chief of technology at

Goldman Sachs, is the first company to sell functioning

quantum computers and the usual names are on the case.

Google, NASA and Lockheed Martin have brought one and

funders include Jeff Bezos at Amazon and the CIA tech-arm

In-Q-Tel. D-Wave’s computing potential is being constantly

increased and already has the processing power equivalent

of billions of human minds. The Archontic Reptilian El-lite

are constructing a global quantum computer system

controlled by Artificial Intelligence to create a parallel reality

or quantum simulation within a quantum simulation to



imprison human awareness in an even smaller perceptual

‘box’. All thoughts, emotions and reactions would be directly

dictated by AI and a quantum computer network is the

foundation component of Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’. Quantum

computers mimic the human brain which is also a quantum

computer, and the potential for overriding brain awareness

is infinitely greater than with binary computers. The Large

Hadron Collider at CERN is a quantum computer and this will

be involved, too.

F igure 6 0 2 : Sisi, Salman and Trump at the opening at the

ludicrously-named

Saudi ‘combating extremism’ centre.

America’s Department of Defense and its DARPA

technology operation are creating what is called the

Sentient World Simulation (SWS) in which quantum

computers and Peter Thiel’s Palantir surveillance software

play key roles. This is already active and it is only a matter

of continual expansion until it becomes fully operational.

SWS involves the constant processing of information from

every man, woman and child on the planet, searching for

behaviour patterns and producing a ‘continuously running,

continually updated mirror model of the real world that can

be used to predict and evaluate future events and courses

of action’. The ‘threat of terrorism’ is being used as the

excuse to trawl information on everyone from every possible

source. Take this to the next step and quantum computers

will be connected to everyone via nanotechnology inside the

body feeding even thought patterns to the simulation. This

was the in-your-face crystal ball symbolism during Donald

Trump’s visit to Saudi Arabia in 2017 when he placed his

hands on a glowing orb (a Palantir) with King Salman and

Egypt’s President Sisi at the opening of the Global Center for



Combating Extremist Ideology in Riyadh which is also home

to the Global Center for Creating and Expanding Extremist

Ideology (Fig 602). They are quite happy for you to know

about information going from people to the Sentient World

Simulation, but not that it is planned for information to go

the other way from the AI simulation to people. Experiments

like those at Facebook into how to manipulate emotions

through the type of information they receive are only one

small example of this programming. The idea is not only to

globally track what is happening, but to change and

manipulate what is happening through AI communications in

all their forms directly to the human mind. One other thing



is that while all this is going on artificial intelligence at the

level they are calling ‘Strong AI’ will be absorbing and

‘learning’ from the information received from the global

population to increase its manipulative and controlling

potential. Welcome to the unreal real world, Neo.

Changing

the

luminous

fire

F igure 6 0 3 : The technological sub-reality communicating with the

human

mind.

F igure 6 0 4 : Hiding the evidence.

At the same ‘time’ and completely connected we have

had the truly amazing increase in technology-generated

radiation that has transformed our atmosphere. Radiation

has been colossally increased by technology from what it

was 50 years ago. The Archontic Reptilian force is changing

the atmosphere to make it compatible with its needs and

the distortion feeds off radiation so the more powerful the

better (nuclear war anyone?). Indeed, its entire fake Matrix

at the human level is constructed within the frequency band

of radiation or ‘luminous fire’. Changing the atmosphere

means changing the frequency and the information content

of the energetic ‘sea’ within which we all live. If you want to

change the fish change the sea. Our bodies are radiation

interacting with the radiation sea and if the sea changes

then so do we unless we are in a state of expanded

awareness and connected to another a source of frequency.

I have described in Phantom Self how transmitter towers are

being placed all over the world, often within specific

distances, to generate radiation frequencies that ‘talk’ to

the frequency band of human brain activity (Fig 603). They are increasing every week and will massively so with 5G.

Many are disguised to hide the true scale of what is going

on (Fig 604). This is another major level of the Smart Grid,

cloud or technological sub-reality (all names for the

basically same thing). Frequencies broadcast within the

human range can cause the brain to lock on to them and

become ‘entrained’ or captured by those frequencies. The

most powerful frequency vibrates weaker ones into line or

entrains them into that frequency as with the violin example

I mentioned. HAARP and similar technology around the

world can bounce radio waves off the ionosphere and back

to earth within the frequency band of brain activity, and

mass-manipulate thought and emotion with the capability of

targeting specific areas at specific times. I have revealed in

other books how frequencies designed to trigger rioting and

conflict are used to scramble mental and emotional

reactions in communities where an outbreak of violence

would suit the agenda. It is well documented how the US

military has used brain entrainment technology to make

enemy troops surrender and the same is happening to make

humanity surrender. Former DARPA scientist Dr Paul Batcho,

who spent nearly three years at the Los Alamos National

Laboratory working in computational physics, has warned

that cell tower transmissions are a ‘terrorist act’ against the

population. He wrote to DARPA, Homeland Security and

other government agencies to warn about his findings:

I seem to have stumbled across an advanced technology

that I would classify as synthetic telepathy [synthetic

everything]. It clearly uses the cellular towers to transmit

illegal signals. It sounds unbelievable but it is actual

technology being used on civilians of the US. My basic

research does indicate that such technology can exist and

dates back to the V2K (P300) mind wave technology of

the 1970s. This does appear to be a much more advanced

version that allows open communication of human mind

to mind bridges.

Batcho said filters must be installed to stop phones and

towers transmitting within the range of human brain

activity, but he is missing the point. The phones and towers

are doing what they do because they are designed to do so.

Batcho continued:

The verified measurement and existence of these RF band

transmissions

constitutes

a

terrorist

act.

These

transmissions will cause harmful health affects in the form

of enhanced microwave radiation illness. It is imperative

that these frequency bands be measured and verified by

an official source. These frequency bands do not exist

naturally, and there is a technology targeting individuals.

It is great that Batcho is making these points, but what he

is talking about is part of the Smart Grid of interconnected

smart technology to control the human mind, dictate its

thoughts and perceptions and affect human genetics (the

body’s standing wave oscillation field). One major reason

cancer is going through the roof is that cancer can be

caused

by

radiation

which

distorts

human

electrical/electromagnetic fields which then plays through to

the decoded hologram as cancer (which they treat with

radiation). Sperm counts are falling to a large part for the

same reason – information distortion through radiation

distortion. A British study found a massive increase in brain

tumours among the young but said the cause seemed a

mystery! Sure it is (Fig 605). Archontic control of ‘science’ is

confirmed every day by scientists refusing to state the

bloody obvious if it’s bad for the agenda of their ultimate

masters. HAARP-like technology can further bathe the earth

in radiation. The human energetic field and central nervous

system is being swamped by technological radiation and

this is another reason for having Wi-Fi everywhere at ever-

increasing power and through smart meters justified by the

global warming hoax. Smart meters are extremely

dangerous to health and brain function and have also

caused many fires. The central nervous system is being

especially targeted as a key body communication centre

and because, as the US Institute of HeartMath discovered,

when electromagnetic harmony or coherence is lost

between the heart, brain and nervous system the person

falls into diminished states of awareness. Smart Meters use

dangerous pulsing microwave radiation technology (with 5G

coming in) and connect to a digital network which can: Keep

you under surveillance in your own home or business; allow

government to shut off your power if it decides you are

using too much; and are open to external hacking that could

potentially take down the entire power grid. Electromagnetic

frequencies also increase the rate of mercury vapour

released into the body from amalgam teeth fillings. This

affects brain function and has been linked by some to

Alzheimer’s and other brain diseases. Yes, teeth are filled

with a deadly poison, but the world isn’t mad. Then there is

the catastrophe of the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan

which has been literally changing the radiation make-up of

the global atmosphere and ocean since it exploded in 2011.

Evidence for this continues to amass far from Japan and

includes the Pacific, the west coast of America and beyond.

Fukushima has been pouring radiation into air and sea year

after year with no sign of stopping and one nuclear engineer

described it as ‘as close to hell as I can imagine’. There is

evidence that I have detailed before that the Fukushima

meltdown was not the tsunami-related ‘accident’ that was

claimed. We have potential nuclear bombs all over the world

called nuclear power stations and I know from a big-time

insider of the UK nuclear industry back in the 1990s that the

Rothschilds were behind the introduction of nuclear power. If

they want something, it is bad for humanity. Nuclear





reactors allow for the production of nuclear weapons and

the effect of nuclear war on the radiation levels in the

atmosphere requires no elaboration.

F igure 6 0 5 : Mustn’t upset the overlords by telling the truth.

F igure 6 0 6 : Children with thinner skulls than adults and so less

protection are

being bombarded with microwave frequencies.

A major source of radiation is taken for granted today –

Wi-Fi. The race to create the global Wi-Fi cloud is making it

increasingly difficult to avoid its effect in buildings of every

kind, schools, aircraft, trains, cafes and even streets.

Everyone’s health is affected in some way because of the

disruption

to

the

human

energy

field

and

electrical/electromagnetic communication within brain and

body.

There

is

a

growing

condition

known

as

electromagnetic hypersensitivity (EHS) or idiopathic

environmental

intolerance

(IEI).

Symptoms

include

headache, fatigue, stress, sleep disturbances, burning

sensations, prickly skin, rashes, pain and aching muscles.

We are told that microwave ovens are dangerous and yet we

are being given a microwave Wi-Fi environment almost

wherever we go and with the satellite networks this is

planned to be literally wherever we go. This is madness, but

not madness by stupidity – madness by design. The

stupidity part is that most people can’t see the obvious

consequences. Microwaves are particularly bad for foetuses

and children and they put Wi-Fi in maternity facilities and

schools and give children smartphones operating on

microwave frequencies (Fig 606). Wi-Fi studies have

revealed how the brains of rats are scrambled by exposure

and yet it won’t affect children and adults when the brain

communicates electrically and electromagnetically in the

same way as Wi-Fi? A study by Swedish Professor Olle

Johansson, Associate Professor at the Karolinska Institute

Department of Neuroscience and head of the Experimental

Dermatology Unit in Stockholm, also found that bacteria

exposed to mobile phone and Wi-Fi radiation becomes

resistant to antibiotics. Many times authorities around the

world (attached to the same Web as the phone producers)

have been caught suppressing the consequences of phones

and WiFi. The California government was exposed for

blocking publication for seven years of a report called ‘Cell

Phones and Health’ which concluded that: ‘Long-term cell

phone use may increase the risk of brain cancer and other

health problems’; ‘Cell phone EMFs [electromagnetic fields]

can affect nearby cells and tissues’; and ‘EMFs can pass

deeper into a child’s brain than an adult’s’. The report only

eventually came to light through the Freedom of Information

Act. What does it take to be so deleted of empathy that you

stop people knowing what this technology is doing to them

and their children? Barrie Trower, a retired British military

intelligence scientist, is a courageous and tireless exposer of

the electromagnetic truth after his experience in microwave

warfare. He said:

During the 1950s and 1960s during the Cold War, it was

realised by accident that microwaves could be used as

stealth weapons when the Russians beamed the American

embassy during the Cold War and it gave everybody

working in the embassy cancer, breast cancers, leukaemia

whatever, and it was realised then that low level

microwaves were the perfect stealth weapon to be used

on dissident groups around the world, because you could

make dissident groups sick, give them cancer, change

their mental outlook on life without them even knowing

they were being radiated.

Trower makes the very important point about the

disruptive effect of microwaves on water which is a crucial

part

of

the

brain/body

electrical

and

chemical

communication system:

The electromagnetic spectrum is a band that goes from

gamma rays and x-rays at one end, the very high energy

waves, and it comes down through visible light, which is

also some radiation, and then it goes through infrared

microwaves, TV and radio. Now the only ones which really

affect us in the communications industry are the

microwaves, and microwaves have a special ability to

interfere with water, which is how microwave ovens work,

and we are made of water. All of our chemical and

electrical signals involve water in the body, somehow,

electrical communications in the body. So, the industry

has picked the worst possible part of the electromagnetic

spectrum to give to young children and to adults.

And that happened by accident? No chance – it’s all been

planned. Studies have revealed that it can take 25 minutes

for people to recover concentration after a cell-phone call

and on average they receive a call every 11 minutes so

there is no recovery. Another scientist with the guts to speak

out about the cumulative radiation effect on humanity is Dr

Michael A. Persinger of Laurentian University in Canada, an

expert in Extremely Low Frequency (ELF), who has been

studying the impact of all this for decades. He said: ‘For the

first time in our evolutionary history, we have generated an

entire secondary, virtual, densely complex environment – an

electromagnetic soup – that essentially overlaps the human

nervous system.’ More powerful radiation and heavy metals

(chemtrails) in the atmosphere increase the effectiveness of

HAARP-like technology (as with weather manipulation) and

together they can interact with nanotechnology implanted

as smart dust.

Pull together the strands of all the elements that I have

described and this is what you get: A technological sub-

reality within the satellite bubble of the Wi-Fi information

cloud controlled by AI beamed at the entire Earth with

nowhere excluded; and an Internet with everything attached

to it through the Internet of Things with the human mind

connected to a vast artificial intelligence web of control

employing transhumanist technology in brain and body to

create a permanent electromagnetic/digital feedback loop.

It’s bye, bye humans as we have known them. Underpinning

everything would be a quantum computer system working

with 5G Wi-Fi (or worse) and all controlled by AI or Archontic

Intelligence. We are looking at another ‘Fall’. The old psyche

was replaced by the new psyche and now the new psyche is

being replaced by the AI psyche. Google, Amazon, NASA

and CIA involvement in quantum computer development

can be appreciated from another perspective given that

they are all strands in the same Web. These are the same

names leading the way in the development of AI technology.

As one headline put it: ‘The Race For AI: Google, Twitter,

Intel, Apple In A Rush To Grab Artificial Intelligence Start-

Ups.’ Hundreds of smaller AI companies have been bought

out by these and other Internet and tech giants with Google

leading the way. Another headline captured the potential

consequences of this: ‘Tech Giants’ Artificial Intelligence

Monopoly Possibly the Most Dangerous in History.’ This is

true and all long-planned.

The Space Fence The most obvious expression of the

‘cloud’ or technological sub-reality is the ‘Space Fence’. The

Air Force Space Surveillance System began in 1959 as a

radar and surveillance system to detect orbiting space

debris and threats from ‘out there’ at heights of up to 15

nautical miles; but since 2013 this is being replaced by a

next-generation system built by the US Air Force with

research and construction contracts awarded to the usual

list of corporations, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman,

Raytheon and General Dynamics with the aim of being fully

operational by 2019. The cover story is again that it’s

protecting Earth from possible threats and tracking

satellites, space weather and foreign missile launches. None

of this describes the prime reason for its construction. The

new Space Fence is being projected from ground stations

with the major one located at Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall

Islands 2,000 nautical miles from Hawaii and a second one

is planned for Western Australia. There will be a third and a

fourth and so on. The upgraded ‘fence’ is using much higher

frequencies than its predecessor within the microwave

segment of the electromagnetic spectrum where you find

Wi-Fi, mobile phones, smart meters and other smart

technology. The 5G ‘revolution’ is all connected with this,

too. The Space Fence is designed to be electromagnetically

connected to all ‘smart’ devices, Wi-Fi, cell phone towers

and the smart dust/nanobots infesting the human body. The

plan is for an enormous electromagnetic prison that would

constantly communicate with the mind, emotions, body and

DNA and an enslaved (trans)-humanity would not have a

thought, emotion, response, perception, action or trait that

was not externally communicated and dictated by AI or

Archontic Intelligence. We would be only what AI tells us we

are and nothing more.

This is Kurzweil and Musk’s world of ‘superhumans’ being

imposed upon us by the mad men and women at Google,

Facebook and the rest of them in the Devil’s Playground of

Silicon Valley. The human body has always been a receiver-

transmitter of information, but those processes are being

hijacked to connect Body-Mind to a technological

‘awareness’ controlled by AI and block the connection with

Infinite Awareness. The upper atmosphere, or Ionosphere,

consists as the name suggests of ionised radiation delivered

by solar radiation. The term ‘ionised’ is defined as ‘radiation

with enough energy ... that during an interaction with an

atom, it can remove tightly bound electrons from the orbit

of an atom, causing the atom to become charged or

ionized’. This is why ionised radiation is so dangerous to

human health, genetics and DNA. Ionised radiation can

either kill cells or so damage their structure and

reproduction that what we call cancer follows. Technological

sources of ionised radiation include nuclear reactors,

particle accelerators (like at CERN in Switzerland) and X -

rays. This is another reason why nuclear catastrophes like

Fukushima are so dangerous to humans, but the El-lite love

them, because their plan is to ionise the lower atmosphere

and turn it all from top to bottom into one seamless

electromagnetic field. Earth’s atmosphere was first

transformed from its original state by the catastrophe that

rearranged the solar system and now they are completing

the job.

‘Saturn’ Earth American Billy Hayes helped to build

HAARP as an engineer and antenna tower erector and says

he was involved with the first test antennas as far back as

1985 with HAARP pioneer Bernard Eastlund. He said he

thought that he was building just another tower structure

and because of compartmentalisation he didn’t know then

what it was really all about. Today Hayes spends his time

alerting those who will listen to the real agenda of HAARP

and all that has followed including the Space Fence. He

explains how the atmosphere is being ionised (ions are

electrically-charged atoms) and filled with pulsing magnetic

waves both of which are dire for human health. Pulsed

radiation can cause neurological and physiological damage

by interfering with natural body rhythms (standing wave

frequencies which are the body’s information blueprint) and

brainwave activity. Hayes describes how the atmosphere is

being transformed into electrically-charged plasma for

military weather manipulation and surveillance with the

potential to change DNA. This is also turning the

atmosphere into an antenna. Ionisation creates plasma

which is a near-perfect medium for electricity and

electromagnetism, and this is why ionised air is so much

more conductive than non-ionised. Changing electrical and

electromagnetic states affect other electrical and

electromagnetic phenomena including the human body

(infestation with aluminium is all part of this). Hayes has

said that wind farms justified by ‘global warming’ are

playing a part in this by the way they ionise the

atmosphere. Anything that affects electromagnetic and

atmospheric states can affect weather systems and human

health. A series of health problems experienced by people

living near turbines have been given the name wind turbine

syndrome. Irony of ironies land around turbines has been

found to have a higher temperature than would otherwise

be. I have pointed out many times over the years that

radiation-generating ‘green’ lightbulbs and smart meters –

both again justified by ‘global warming’ – are part of this

radiation prison distorting the energetic sea in which we

live. Where are the progressives and the Greens? They are

waving their placards about climate change and demanding

wind farms, ‘green’ lightbulbs and smart meters. Billy Hayes

says the process of fracking creates pulsed radiation within

an area and that the rush to digital technology including

digital television and radio is also connected. He says

governments are controlling the building of the

tower/antenna grid network while corporations benefit from

their involvement by the connection with their products. We

can see why DARPA is seed-funding and developing smart

devices that later appear to come from individual

companies. Hayes says that rocket launches are also

involved and he particularly highlights the so-called

‘sounding rockets’ launched by NASA on short sub-orbit

flights taking measurements and performing scientific

experiments. He says the rockets leave in their wake a

plume of crystalline aluminium oxide all the way into space

as part of the ongoing process of changing the nature of the

atmosphere by multiple means including chemtrails.

Hayes especially caught my attention when he said that

the plan was to create Saturn-type ‘space rings’ around the

equator. Norman Bergrun talks of the plasma ‘exhaust’ from

his electromagnetic vehicles making Saturn’s rings, and

Hayes talks about the same thing with planned Earth rings.

Hayes says they would be the result of all these different

constituents delivered into the atmosphere by multiple

means being dragged into a ring orbit around the equator

by a combination of gravity and the centrifugal force from

the spin of the Earth. Some of these rings would be seen

and some not, Hayes says. He likened the process to sitting

on a merry-go-round with the spin pulling you from the

centre to the outside. Rings out in space would operate as a

computer system capable of receiving and transmitting and

mass storage of data. They would act like a CD or DVD, he

said, and all communications from every source would be

recorded there. This is what Saturn is doing on a wider scale

and far more powerfully with its enormous size and much

faster spin which varies between gaseous levels but the

longest is about 10.5 hours. The human brain/mind will be

constantly connected to these Earth ‘space rings’ – the real

meaning of Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’ – through transhumanist

technology and compatible frequency resonance between

the rings and the body/brain/mind. Human mutation would

be a synch by communicating with DNA and the

nanobot/smart dust ‘entities’ infesting the body through

chemtrails, vaccines, food and drink. The public are already

under mind control through perception downloads and

technologically-generated

scalar

fields

and

other

frequencies specifically designed to trigger and infuse

desired mental and emotional states. This makes possible

the production-at-will of violence and riots and even making

whole armies surrender. But the space rings would take this

to a level that the US military calls ‘full-spectrum

dominance’ – the control of everything.

The fast-changing human atmospheric environment is

confirmed by the impact on the Schumann Cavity or

Schumann Cavity Resonance (named after German physicist

Winfried Otto Schumann) which operates in the extremely

low frequency or ELF range between 6 and 8 Hertz. This is

the band of human brain activity and all biological systems,

and 7.83 Hz is said to be the frequency where everything

can connect and communicate. Dolphins generate sound

waves for example of 7.83 Hz and DNA communicates

through extremely low frequency electromagnetic waves at

7.83 Hz. Human alpha brain waves are also broadcast in the

Schumann band in states of relaxation, creativity and

meditation while fear, stress and anxiety block alpha waves

and disconnect us from everything else. Bombardment of

our energetic environment with ionised radiation and

technologically-generated pulsed frequencies is destroying

Schumann Resonance. Physicist and Schumann researcher

Wolfgang Ludwig said: ‘Measuring Schumann resonance in

or around a city has become impossible ... electromagnetic

pollution from cell phones has forced us to make

measurements at sea.’ Professor Rü tger Wever from the

Max Planck Institute for Behavioural Physiology in Germany

built an underground bunker isolated from Schumann

resonance to study student volunteers for a month. Isolation

from Schumann frequencies caused biological rhythms

(circadian rhythms) to be scrambled and they suffered

emotional distress and migraine headaches. These

symptoms disappeared after only a short exposure to 7.8

Hz. Ponder the implications for human life and health of this

radiation

and

frequency

onslaught

on

Earth’s

electromagnetic field in the light of how we are constantly

interacting with that field as part of the Cosmic Internet. The

Global Coherence Initiative (GCI), a division of the US

HeartMath Institute, monitors the magnetic field and how it

affects and is influenced by human emotions and behaviour.

The hypothesis on their website is the same as my own:

• Human and animal health, cognitive functions, emotions

and behaviour are affected by solar, geomagnetic and

other earth-related magnetic fields

• The earth’s magnetic field is a carrier of biologically

relevant information that connects all living systems

• Every person affects the global information field

• Collective human consciousness affects the global

information field. Therefore, large numbers of people

creating heart-centred states of care, love and

compassion will generate a more coherent field

environment that can benefit others and help offset the

current planetary discord and incoherence

All the fear, anxiety, hate, violence, war, depression and

other

lower-frequency

states

are

electromagnetic

phenomenon

and

so

change

the

electromagnetic

atmosphere around us. Go into a room where there have

been negative actions and emotions and you can feel it –

‘you could cut the atmosphere with a knife’. This

‘atmosphere’ is created by human thought and emotion

which

manifests

electromagnetically

at

particular

frequencies. Now imagine what the cumulative thoughts

and emotions of seven billion-plus people are doing to the

collective atmosphere second by second. They are creating

a feedback loop by electromagnetically-polluting the

atmosphere which then impacts upon human mental and

emotional states to create more low-frequency thoughts and

emotions. We can change this by opening our hearts and

transmitting frequencies of love, joy and empathy. In the

same way frequencies transmitted into the atmosphere

technologically impact upon our mental and emotional

states and this is what atmospheric manipulation, described

by Hayes and others, is designed to do.

Scalar jailer One other point to pull all this together

which I have not seen elsewhere and my conclusions come

from the usual sources of connecting the dots and following

the clues. I am defining what I call the scalar field as an

energetic/information field which connects everything from

beyond time and space – in theme what mainstream science

calls dark energy/matter or energy that we can’t see. The

timeless nature of the scalar field means that it has no

velocity because where is there to go when you are already

everywhere? The scalar field as I am defining it is a

foundation of the quantum realm of possibility and

probability from which we manifest reality. I have concluded

that the Archontic Reptilian/Grey collective force has been

infusing the information blueprint of its desired new world

for humans into this scalar field and manipulating humans

to decode possibilities and probabilities to become its

desired possibilities and probabilities. Humanity is being

manipulated to manifest its own prison. Not all levels of the

scalar field are involved, only certain frequencies. Archontic

Reptilians have worked ceaselessly with their hybrid El-lite

to manipulate human mental and emotional states into that

same frequency band so we will decode our own collective

prison according to their scalar blueprint. Pre-emptive

programming through movies and TV programmes that

portray their desired dystopian, machine-controlled reality is

all part of this frequency synchronisation between the

human mind and the scalar blueprint. Humanity is being

manipulated into creating the very world I have been

describing and this is the central reason for why it is all so

amazingly coordinated. We are not so much being invaded

from without, but from within. If you encode information on

a data stick a computer will manifest that on the screen.

The Archontically-manipulated scalar field is the equivalent

of that data stick, and humanity is the collective computer.

Kurzweil’s predicted reality is emerging so fast because

humans are decoding it – folding it – into existence. There

are so many reasons why we have to open our minds and

expand our awareness and sense of the possible (and

probable) and so raise the frequency on which we perceive

reality; but this is the most crucial of all. Those with

perceptions oscillating within the manipulated scalar field

frequency band will continue to collectively manifest the

Kurzweil reality unless they get the hell out of those

frequencies into genuinely all-possibility/probability realms

of scalar/quantum potential. Those who are resonating

beyond the Brave New World segments of the scalar field

are challenging that collective manifestation with other

possibilities. This will all sound crazy to many, I’m sure, but I

know it’s true. The scalar field they are using to manipulate

us can also be employed in another way to heal everyone

and everything. Collective human consciousness affects the

global information field. Therefore, large numbers of people

creating heart-centred states of care, love and compassion

will generate a more coherent field environment that can

benefit others and help offset the current planetary discord

and incoherence.

The Cull I have been exposing the plan for a cull of the

human population since the 1990s and we can now see why

there is less need for humans than before from the

Archontic Reptilian El-lite point of view. Humanity has been

manipulated into building the technological structure

through which Archontic AI can run everything without the

need for so many human slaves. You have built our control

system and now you can fuck off. The most obvious

expression of the cull is dramatically falling sperm counts,

but there are many other ways that humanity is being

prepared for a massive reduction in its numbers. Official

documents and statements confirm that the plan is to cull

the population. A draft copy of the United Nations Global

Biodiversity Assessment demands that humanity be reduced

to a billion, and TV producer Aaron Russo said that insider

Nick Rockefeller told him the population had to be culled by

at least half. This theme appears with other organisations

and documents and from people like CNN founder Ted

Turner and Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates whose father,

William H. Gates Sr, supported the concepts of the infamous

eugenicist Thomas Malthus. Father Gates was once head of

the Rockefeller-created Planned Parenthood which was part

of the eugenics movement. In 2010, Epicyte, a Californian

biotech company, patented the Epicyte gene, which makes

men and women sterile and infertile when ingested and

they genetically-engineered the gene into corn seeds.

Confirmation of the people-culling motivation came when

Monsanto and DuPont came together to purchase the

Epicyte company and ‘commercialise’ its sterilisation gene.

How do you know if you are consuming this? You don’t. Rima

E. Laibow, Medical Director of the US Natural Solutions

Foundation, points out that the US Food and Drug

Administration (FDA), which she rightly calls the Fraud and

Death Administration, has made it illegal to have that

information. Contraceptive drugs are also found in the water

supply delivered through urine. ‘Care pathways’ when

doctors decide that someone is going to die (often wrongly)

and take action to speed the process is the culling of those

too old and frail to serve The System any longer. Dr Richard

Day, the Rockefeller insider and executive of Planned

Parenthood, told those paediatricians in 1969 of the coming

‘demise pill’ when people would reach a certain age, say

goodbye to their families and take a death pill to free up the

world for those still of working age. Increasing pressure for

death-on-demand euthanasia and the manipulation of

resentment by the young of the old is all connected to this

in the Totalitarian Tiptoe. Actor Michael Shannon will get his

wish with the demise pill that old people who don’t agree

with him should be told ‘it’s time for the urn’, and this state

euthanasia will be enforced by the law of the land. Pope

Francis and his demand to ‘replace old people with young

people in the workplace’ relates to this agenda.





F igure 6 0 7 : Good thinking, great idea.

F igure 6 0 8 : Drowning in a sea of toxic plastic.

The obvious collective attack on human health and

wellbeing is being waged through radiation, chemicals in

food, drink and water supplies, GMO, mass-toxicity,

catastrophic levels of vaccination, laboratory-created

diseases, lack of nutrition, starvation and many other

sources (Fig 607). I have discussed this in more detail in

other books. Ecosystems are being dismantled and poisoned

everywhere, pollinating bee numbers are collapsing along

with soil fertility and vital bacteria, with humans at the top

of this food chain. Poisoning of food-growing land and the

crops that people eat is madness to anyone remotely

conscious, but the inversion of sanity into madness means

that Postage Stamp ‘normal’ says ‘what’s the problem?’

Human-caused global warming may be a hoax but we are

unravelling Earth’s ability to sustain the current population.

Plastic is infesting the world with 480 billion plastic bottles

sold every year and the number projected to be 584 billion

by 2021 with all the implications that has for life and toxicity

at all levels (Fig 608). Web corporations responsible for most

environmental destruction and pollution simply get away

with it. 5G alone is going to cumulatively kill enormous

numbers of people if humanity is ignorant and stupid

enough to allow that to be imposed. The human energy

field, organism and immune system is groaning under the

scale of this daily onslaught and the cumulative cull in

Tiptoe stages is supported by global war and hunger and

increasingly by technology. Genetically-modified food is

having a devastating effect on health as I detail in Phantom

Self and other works. Recent mergers between GMO,

chemical and pharmaceutical giants (strands in the same

Web) are chess-moves to ensure global domination of

genetically-modified food to genetically modify us. We have

had the proposed merger of those twins of evil Monsanto

and Bayer AG of Germany; the amalgamation of the GMO

segments of Dow Chemicals and DuPont; and Chinese state-

owned ChemChina taking over Swiss Syngenta. Claims

about GMO increasing yields to ‘feed the world’ are

nonsense and they know it. Within a very few years yields

fall and soil fertility is destroyed and swamped with the

essential poisons that go with GMO. Superweeds have

mutated to resist the poisons and take over food growing

areas. Bill Gates-promoted GMO is an ever-steepening slope

to world hunger and mass ill-health and once again they

know it. There are many reasons why GMO devastates

health – see my other books – but one never publicly talked

about is the way that the energy in GMO and other non-

organic food is insufficient to allow anything like optimum

communication between cells. This scrambles the

communication system (imagine a computer) and these

malfunctions manifest as disharmony in the form of disease

including heart disease and cancer, the two biggest killers

along with mainstream medicine. We must ensure that the

UK’s withdrawal from the European Union does not allow the

government to drop restrictions on GMO although EU

bureaucrats have long been looking for their own

opportunity to do that. Only public opposition has so far

held them in check.

Toxic shite in Big Pharma-produced vaccines are damaging

people,

especially

children,

‘physically’,

mentally,

emotionally and genetically, and their standing wave

oscillation stability and balance. Vaccines in their base state

are highly distorted waveform frequencies reflecting their

content. Why wouldn’t they be when some contain aborted

human DNA, foetal calf blood, aluminium, formaldehyde and

other toxic shite? Billions are ‘given’ in overseas ‘aid’ by the

UK and other Western governments with the specific proviso

that the money be spent on vaccination programmes. This

money is a vast and ongoing subsidy to Big Pharma from

Western taxpayers. Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates is right at

the centre of this global vaccine network supported, as with

GMO, by the vacuous sycophant Bono. More people are

rejecting vaccine propaganda and choosing to protect

themselves and their children from the consequences of

vaccination. The pharmaceutical cartel, a major, major

strand in the Web, is responding to this by lobbying and

manipulating governments to make them compulsory.

‘Choice’ is an illusion that exists only when you ‘choose’ to

do what The System demands. Agree to do what we want

(‘choice’) or we’ll make you do it. By early 2017 there were

134 bills in the pipeline in 35 US states seeking to reduce or

delete the right to refuse vaccines for children. A more

comprehensive definition of fascism I cannot imagine when

the state dictates what you must put in your body and your

child’s body. This is happening around the world with the

health minister to ‘progressive’ French President Emmanuel

Macron announcing her desire to make eleven vaccinations

compulsory and ‘progressive’ Italian Prime Minister Paolo

Gentiloni making it compulsory for parents to vaccinate

their children with the number of required vaccinations

rising from four to twelve. If parents refuse they face big

fines and their children will be banned from school and

nurseries. Take them out, then, they will be far better off

anyway. The excuse was a reduction in parents agreeing to

vaccinations. You have a choice – do what we say. Australia

has stopped government benefits for families who don’t

vaccinate their children according to the state (Big Pharma)

schedule (the no jab, no pay law) and Prime Minister

Malcolm Turnbull is pressing for further compulsion from the

dark cloud of arrogance that permanently engulfs him. He

justifies this fascism by saying: ‘If you don’t vaccinate your

child you are not just putting their own life at risk but you

are putting everyone else’s children at risk.’ This is utter

nonsense and straight from the script of Big Pharma with

whom Turnbull through his wife has big connections. If you

want protection from disease then take action to support

the amazing human immune system and don’t demolish it

with the tidal wave of poison currently inflicted upon the

world’s children with up to 74 vaccines in some countries

before age 17 and most of them in the early years while the

immune system is still developing. It will never be the same

again after that (Fig 609). Does anyone really think that a satanic Big

Pharma cartel founded on the profit margin

bottom line (dependent on people being sick) is promoting

all this out of a wish to help people stay healthy? The

Rothschild-Rockefeller-created World Health Organization

(WHO) has even produced a manual, How to Respond to

Vocal Vaccine Deniers in Public, to meet the threat of what it

calls their ‘adversaries’. They are not concerned parents

with every right to question what is best for their children,

but adversaries. This is the dynamic in place between

authority and public at every level. A ‘vaccine denier’ (see

climate change denier) is apparently ‘a member of a

subgroup at the extreme end of the hesitancy continuum’.

These people are completely mad. The American Academy

of Pediatrics claims that no more investigations are needed

into vaccine effects because ‘we already know that vaccines

are safe and effective’, but when evidence is demanded to

support their claims of safety and effectiveness the reply

must have been lost in the post. Meanwhile, more than $3

billion dollars has been quietly paid out by the US Vaccine

Injury Compensation Program to vaccine-damaged people,

overwhelmingly children.





F igure 6 0 9 : Pinch me it can’t be true. Ouch – shit, it is.

Got a job, sir?

F igure 6 1 0 : The question comparatively few seem to be asking –

but they will.

Alongside this war on health and vitality you have jobs

formerly done by humans taken over at rapid speed by AI

machines and technology and eventually there will be

hardly any paid work left for the population to financially

survive. Who pays their bills then? No one – they fall into

poverty-stricken dependency at the foot of that Hunger

Games Society pyramid (Fig 610). In a sane, fair and

compassionate society drudgery jobs would be replaced by

machines controlled by humans and money shared out

among those who no longer had that work to do. They could

then turn their minds to other pursuits they enjoy while the

bills are paid. But that is not the idea in terms of adequate

support. They are planned to be left to secure their own

survival while the less-than-one-percent take all the benefits

of AI automation. The plan is to cull most of these ‘surplus’

people – Kissinger’s ‘useless eaters’ – and turn the rest in to

computer terminals within the Archontic AI hive mind. The

scale of the robotic transformation of the workplace is only

just beginning to dawn and most are still in ignorance of the

consequences. A United Nations report predicted that two-

thirds of the human labour force in developing nations will

be replaced by automation while other studies have

concluded similar outcomes around the world, including one

that half of American workers could be replaced within 20

years. Peter Diamandis, Kurzweil’s mate at the Singularity

University, said much the same with his prediction that 48

percent of American jobs will be lost to AI in the next 20

years. Kai-Fu Lee, a Chinese technologist and investor,

estimates that robots and AI could replace humans in half

their current jobs in ten years. He said that AI is the

‘singular thing that will be larger than all of human tech

revolutions added together, including electricity, the

industrial revolution, the internet, mobile internet – because

AI is pervasive’. A report by the Sutton Trust, a charity

focused on social mobility, predicted that 15 million jobs in

the UK could disappear in those 20 years with the poorest

workers hit hardest. We have young people committing

themselves to massive debt to fund their university

education (programming) but what use will almost every

degree be in the wake of the technological takeover?

Education as we’ve known it is in its dying era in the run-up

to an AI connection to the human mind. There would be no

need for teachers any more to impart the desired collective

reality once AI goes direct. Ponder the number of jobs lost

worldwide by driverless cars, buses, trucks and trains alone.

A car was unveiled in 2016 driven by AI which had taught

itself how to do so by simply by watching humans do it. On

that basis, everything can be done by AI so long as it has a

technological vehicle. A ‘Wikipedia for Robots’ is even being

developed which is a cloud-based Internet system only for

AI robots to share data and experience to speed

development of human-like robots referred to as ‘Strong AI’.

Around four million people are employed in the fast food

industry in the United States and are wide open to

replacement by robots. Major chains such as McDonald’s

and Wendy’s are already replacing people with automated

kiosks. Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, the world’s largest

franchise licence owner of Domino’s Pizza, has formed a

group called Domino’s Robotic Unit to oversee a robot

delivery system which is already being tested both on the

ground and with flying drones. AI is being used in wider food

production and drones are even being employed as flying

shepherds for animal husbandry. Other disappearing jobs

include travel agents, pharmacy assistants and translators.

A study by jobs search engine Adzuna analysed 79 million

UK job advertisements over two years and concluded that

two thirds of the fastest declining jobs in Britain were falling

to technology. Walt Disney has filed a patent application for

soft-body robots to replace the people in character

costumes meeting children, and a robot dubbed SAM (Semi-

Automated Mason) has been unveiled that can lay bricks

four times faster than a human. Virtually nothing and no one

is safe from this AI takeover of human life. People talk about

a migrant invasion, but the AI invasion is the most profound

of all with its effects on indigenous populations worldwide

and migrants. I have noted how the plan is to control

information that people receive through algorithms and that

also means replacing most of the journalists, too. Algorithms

are being created not to just censor news but to write it. You

may think that most journalists are already robots repeating

the official version of everything and you would be right, but

there are still some that buck that trend and treat their

profession seriously and with dignity and responsibility. They

are the ones really being targeted by the algorithm

transformation which will see AI delivering the ‘news’.

Fredrick Kunkle, co-chair of the Washington-Baltimore News

Guild, said that so far technology has taken over only some

of the ‘grunt’ (menial) work, but that is not where it is

meant to end. This was confirmed by the $800,000 grant by

Google (of course) to the UK Press Association news agency

to develop AI robot reporters turning out 30,000 articles a

month for local newspapers and bloggers. This is part of

Google’s $170 million Digital News Initiative which claims to

be helping journalism when the real reason is to take it over.

There is also a threat to the jobs of lawyers with AI legal

advice and case processing now being introduced for

matters such as parking ticket disputes and this is certain to

expand much further into the legal profession. New Jersey

replaced its bail system with an algorithm that

mathematically assesses the risk of defendants absconding

before their trial date and others are going the same way.

Some of these systems have been found to have built-in

racial bias and at the end of this road we will have AI

replacing judges altogether. Algorithms are already being

developed to do this and mind scanning technology

combined with artificial intelligence has been created to

determine if people are guilty of crimes or even planning to

commit crimes. China has announced its intentions with Li

Meng, vice minister of science and technology, saying: ‘If

we use our smart systems and smart facilities well, we can

know beforehand ... who might be a terrorist, who might do

something bad’ This will, naturally, not apply to

governments. These themes have been portrayed in movies

like Minority Report which are telling you what is coming.

Durham Police in Britain became the first in Europe to use

artificial intelligence to assess whether those arrested are a

danger of reoffending if released. They claim that AI doesn’t

make the final assessment and is only a tool for police, but

that is not how it is eventually meant to be. Richard

Atkinson, a member of the Law Society’s Criminal Law

Committee, can see where this is planned to go:

This is a very dangerous step. By law, custody decisions

must be made by human beings, taking complex

circumstances into account but, in reality, custody

sergeants will delegate responsibility to the algorithm.

They will undoubtedly face questions from higher up if

they choose to go against it.

How will suspects’ solicitors be able to challenge the

algorithm, if they’re only given a lot of data and told this

means their client is high-risk? There’s a serious issue that

something that’s quasi-scientific is given undue weight

and effectively becomes gospel. And where does this end

up? Do we have algorithms making decisions in court?

That is exactly the idea.

Nor are rank and file bankers safe from AI replacement as

we saw when BlackRock, the world’s largest money

management firm, announced the replacement of 13

percent of its portfolio managers with algorithms. Bank

teller jobs are going to be decimated by AI and that process

is well underway. Insurance companies are beginning to use

AI instead of humans to process insurance claims. Amazon

bought the robotics company Kiva Systems in 2012 and now

has 45,000 robots replacing humans at its fulfilment centres

with the speed of introduction increasing dramatically every

year. The way Amazon treats its human workers is a

disgrace and I am sure most are delighted on one level to

be free from such slavery, but how do they then pay the

rent when other jobs are also being automated? Jeff Bezos

and Amazon are launching fully automated and cashless

Amazon Go supermarkets that would require as few as three

humans in the entire process. Amazon paid $13.7 billion for

the Whole Foods chain in 2017 and watch Whole Foods go

down the same automation route. I was in a supermarket

about a year ago which was moving to automation when I

met a customer who said how much she supported what

was happening. I asked her how those losing their jobs

would pay their bills and she told me that no one would lose

their jobs because people would be needed to run the

machines. I checked if I was insane or not and it came back

negative so it must have been her. The European Union has

introduced the concept of ‘electronic personhood’, and the

debate over rights for AI robots has begun. How long before

political correctness includes robots and machines? Even

robots with human-like flesh and bone structures are being

developed (‘Strong AI’) as biological humans become

marginalised and overwhelmed by the AI invasion – and

invasion is what it is. Dr Mark Sagar, CEO of New Zealand AI

company Soul Machines, has invented what is being

described as a ‘virtual nervous system’ which can learn and

mimic human emotions. He believes that robots that can

think and feel like humans could be living among us within

ten years. This is how far we have gone already and the

speed of development is getting faster every year. ‘Realistic’

sex robots are already on the market including child sex

dolls that can apparently be bought in Japan. These further

blur the difference between humans and technology. Some

psychologists say that sexual relationships with robots could

‘desensitise humans to intimacy and empathy’. But isn’t

that exactly what the El-lite want to do?

AI army I have highlighted the plan for a world army and

that, too, is to be controlled by AI or Archontic Intelligence.

This is worth a moment of reflection: Human minds little

more than a computer terminal on the Archontic cloud and

law enforcement worldwide in the hands of the same AI.

What could possibly go wrong? If people opened their minds

and looked at how all these dots connect they would see

that the ‘technological revolution’ is really the covert means

through which AI is taking over everything and turning

humans into a slave race far beyond any previous meaning

of that term. The AI world army would be akin to the

Sentinels that controlled humans in the Matrix. How do you

feel about laser weapons controlled by AI? WTF? Advanced

AI technology has been developed by BBN technologies, a

DARPA-connected, wholly-owned subsidiary of the truly evil

‘defence’ contractor Raytheon. BBN, based in Cambridge,

Massachusetts, involves a ‘world-class quantum research

team ... enabling next generation quantum sensing,

quantum communications and quantum computing’. This is

being used for many human-control scenarios but at its core

it will allow artificial intelligence to direct warfare and

replace human commanders. We have had the first machine

killing a human for US law enforcement when Dallas police

used a robot in 2016 to kill a suspect and this was only the

start of what is planned (Fig 611). Russia’s humanoid robot

FEDOR (Final Experimental Demonstration Object Research)

can shoot guns from both hands. Militaries around the world

are employing AI weapons and robotic devices to allow AI to

make battlefield decisions. Tanks, planes, battleships are all

being designed and introduced with AI making the decisions

including who to kill. DARPA is at the forefront naturally,

with aircraft drones equipped with a ‘neural microchip’ that

lets them ‘think like a human’. No, think like an Archon.

Military helicopters are being similarly transformed by

DARPA to operate with AI and not human pilots. DARPA

unveiled plans in 2016 for the world’s first flotilla of killer

warships within five years under the name ‘Sea Hunter’.

Scientists and developers don’t even fully understand these

AI creations and how decisions are made. A health program

called Deep Patient is an example. Joel Dudley, who leads its

development at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, said: ‘We

can build these models, but we don’t know how they work.’

Oh, right, give it a laser weapon then. AI or Archontic

Intelligence must be in hysterics playing with their minds.

The AI World Army has been in the making for a very long

time and once again the technology is being introduced in a

particular sequence which is now quickening by the day as

more and more AI military hardware is released from secret

development projects. This includes aerial drones of every

shape and size designed to keep surveillance on populations

from the air, complete with guns and Tasers; but still the

penny hasn’t dropped for the great majority and certainly

not for the corporate-owned mainstream media. Some

academics and scientists have warned that killer robots will

leave humans defenceless without apparently realising that

this is the whole idea (Fig 612). Troops worldwide who think

they are fighting for their country or freedom or some other

delusion might contemplate the fact that they are really

fighting to impose the will of the very force that is taking

over their military, and will technologically-control them and

their family when they and the military scrapheap get to





know each other. The same goes for police officers who are

also planned to be replaced by AI robots. The world’s first

robot officer officially joined the Dubai police in 2017.

Brigadier-General Khalid Nasser Al Razzouqi, Director-

General

of

Dubai

Police

‘Smart

Services’,

said:

F igure 6 1 1 : A sign of what is planned to come.

F igure 6 1 2 : Once you know the plan and the nature of the Hidden

Hand world

events fall into place.

With an aim to assist and help people in the malls or on

the streets, the Robocop is the latest smart addition to the

force and has been designed to help us fight crime, keep

the city safe and improve happiness levels. He can chat

and interact, respond to public queries, shake hands and

offer a military salute.

This AI ‘cop’, which can read facial expressions and

respond in six languages, has a built-in tablet that can be

used to report crime and pay fines. AI police are planned to

account for a quarter of the Dubai force by 2030 with some

police stations ‘manned’ only by robots. Brigadier-General

Razzouqi said Dubai was seeking to be a global leader in

smart city technology and this is another aspect of smart

cities – AI law enforcement. Connecting the dots is the route

to revelation. We must have context. Dots appear to be one

thing in isolation and very different when connected to all

the others. Insiders like Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates are

walking, talking dot-connections as are professional

manipulators like George Soros and many others who are

friends with Bono. When Gates, Soros and their like support

or call for something the agenda benefits every time. Is it

really a coincidence that Gates was the frontman for a

computer system essential to human control or that he

spends his subsequent billions through the Bill and Melinda

Gates Foundation to fund and promote vaccines, GMO,

geoengineering, surveillance, the global warming hoax,

mind-programming ‘education’ and artificial intelligence? Or

that Soros does the same with ‘progressive’ politics, mass

migration, fake revolutions and manipulation of ‘democratic’



elections among so much else? And they are far from alone

in their dot-connecting propaganda and funding.

F igure 6 1 3 : A global human catastrophe in the making.

Mass-drugging of children and adults with psychological

potions is another pixel in the picture, another strand in the

tapestry of control. I have laid out in detail over the years

the systematic drugging with Ritalin and its fellow mind-

abusing concoctions of children and adults that don’t

conform (Fig 613). This is more medicalisation of emotion

and perceptual choice. Psyche-changing drugs are handed

out like candy today as we saw with the example of

university students. How can you think clearly and see

through the maze of diversions and control if your brain is

scrambled by pharmaceuticals? As I mentioned earlier

Aldous Huxley’s insider knowledge allowed him to predict it

all in 1961:

There will be, in the next generation or so, a

pharmacological method of making people love their

servitude, and producing dictatorship without tears, so to

speak, producing a kind of painless concentration camp

for entire societies, so that people will in fact have their

own liberties taken away from them, but rather enjoy it,

because they will be distracted from any desire to rebel by

propaganda or brainwashing, or brainwashing enhanced

by pharmacological methods. And this seems to be the

final revolution.

This is where we are going and it has to stop.

Year Million (actually, rather sooner) Just

before this book went into the production stage with the

text complete a six-part television series was broadcast by

National Geographic called Year Million, and appropriately

narrated by Laurence Fishburne who played Morpheus in

The Matrix. The series featured leading transhumanists and

‘futurists’, including Kurzweil and Diamandis, describing a

world transformed by AI. The first stage would see humans

exploring the realms of virtual reality through a

technological

connection

between

minds

and

supercomputers (‘Metaverse 1.0’) and then they would

dispose of the body altogether and upload their minds to

‘the cloud’ to become only a digital awareness living on a

hard drive (‘Metaverse 2.0’). We are back to Transcendence.

The narration and interviewees predicted much of what I

have been describing but with none of the context. We were

told that AI would lead to a ‘post human’ society which

would involve ‘unshackling our consciousness from our

body’ and we would ‘live as a digital signal in an online

cloud collective’ (a ‘Borg Collective’). Some predicted a

digital paradise in which minds would ‘choose their

adventures every day’ and become the ‘captain of their

ship’. Michio Kaku, an American theoretical physicist and

futurist, said in one programme: ‘We would become the

gods that we once feared and worshipped.’ Actually, that is

true but not for the reasons he thinks. We would be

assimilated into the digital hive mind of those that claim to

be gods – the Archontic distortion that already ensnares

Reptilians and Greys. This is described in Year Million, again

without the true context, as cloud-based ‘brain-to-brain

communication’ through brain-chip ‘telepathy’ (the deletion

of privacy) and ‘swarm intelligence’ leading to the merging

of all minds into one hive mind. They even use that term

‘hive mind’ which has been the goal of the Archontic

distortion and its Reptilian-Grey subordinates from the start

of the hijack. They have done this to many realities before.

The Year Million voiceover described the hive mind in terms

of a ‘super-intelligence’ when it really means being

Archontically absorbed. The narrative said that human

minds would lose their sense of individuality and that is

correct – they would then be simply part of the Archontic

mind. We already have the power of telepathy, but the

Hidden Hand has sought to suppress that and other ‘sixth

sense’ gifts and potential. It wants ‘telepathy’ only in

technological forms that it can control. Year Million

describes how the hive mind would allow communication

between diversity of thought and opinion, but the Archontic

hive mind is meant to destroy all diversity and think only as

one mind with one agenda. The voiceover said the hive

mind would mean coming together as one and we are

seeing the mimicking of all-is-one Infinite Awareness but

confined only to the digital level at the expense of the

Infinite level. Fusing human minds digitally would

collectively firewall them from Infinite connection.

We were told that swarm intelligence could be needed to

‘compete’ with artificial intelligence but why are we opening

the way for another intelligence that we have to compete

with? What madness. Algorithm AI would be fine when

supporting

the

human

experience

under

human

stewardship, but once the line is crossed into control and

takeover this is surely insanity being passed off as

technological development. For this nightmare to happen

humanity has to become addicted to technology and desire

its constant expansion, and among the younger ‘smart’

generations this is happening and the reason it is

happening. The series did, to be fair, highlight the

surveillance and control possibilities of the hive mind but

the emphasis was on the benefits. The very idea that an

uploaded digital mind would be free and captain of its ship

takes naï vety to still new levels of absurdity. Once human

minds were uploaded they would be enslaved forever in the

fake realm of digital reality with no means of escape – as

some of the more sensible contributors to the series pointed

out. Such minds would be trapped in the supercomputer

‘cloud’ and no one seemed to grasp, as they talked of

freedom and paradise, that digital reality by its very nature

as a computer system would require someone or something

running that system (AI). This would therefore be in ultimate

control of everything within the system including uploaded

minds. That moment would be humanity’s point of no return

and it is much closer than people think unless we see what

is really happening. We also heard in Year Million how all this

was inevitable and can’t be stopped – the Borg mantra of

‘resistance is futile’. It is not futile if people wake up to this

in large enough numbers, and if many of those innocently

involved in AI expansion see that what they are really

creating is akin to a digital Frankenstein designed to delete

humanity altogether in any form worthy of the name.

Those promoting and developing ‘Metaverse’ technology

and human assimilation largely break down into two camps.

One consists of those who know the real agenda and

support its goals as expressions of the Archontic mind. The

other involves a much greater number of left-brain

perceivers who are so obsessed with the technology and its

potential that they can’t see the forest for the twigs. They

speak of ‘finding eternity’ and ‘becoming immortal’ when in

terms of awareness we are already eternal and immortal.

We see this most basic misunderstanding in cryonics (from a

Greek word meaning cold) in which people pay a lot of

money to have their bodies preserved at something like

minus 196 degrees centigrade in the hope that they can be

revived in the ‘future’ when methods of treating the disease

that killed them are known, as well as knowledge of how to

revive them from such a frozen state. Some are even having

only their heads preserved because that’s where they think

their memories and personality reside (they don’t). I guess

head-only cryonics must be considerably cheaper but surely

requires extraordinary levels of optimism. It’s all crazy stuff

and how these people must symbolically hold their

awareness in their ‘hands’ once they leave the body and see

the nonsense of preserving their head in a reality of eternal

awareness that doesn’t need a head. The Year Million

narrative about escaping ‘the jail of our bodies’ and

relocating to a hard drive misses the entire point that while

the body is a prison for consciousness there is an escape

route which allows us to withdraw into expanded reality and

potentially infinite forever. Uploading human minds to a

digital construct does not free them from body-Alcatraz but

entraps them into an even smaller perceptual cell, in which

only digital reality exists and AI is dictating everything

including all thoughts and responses. Year Million’s concept

of being ‘enslaved to biology’ does not conceive of

awareness without an external vehicle and so equates the

digital prison with escape from the body. It also perceives

human awareness as something in and of itself when it is a

point of perception within Infinite Awareness. Instead of

decoding the digital hologram we would become a digital

entity and nothing else. No longer would the Archontic force

expressed as AI have to manipulate perception because it

would be that perception by assimilating human awareness

into itself and absorbing all that creativity (‘ennoia’ to

Gnostics) that it doesn’t have. This is the point of it all in the

end – the Archontic distortion is seeking to overcome its

limitations by absorbing the awareness of others that have

the Spirit potential to go beyond those limitations. It is like

King Louie, the orangutan in The Jungle Book, pursuing the

secret of ‘man’s red fire’. The obsession with virtual reality

is leading humanity along a road where what I have

described is the outcome. We already have websites like

Second Life in which people interact as digital personalities

and this is in the process of expanding into 3D virtual reality.

It is another step on the road to ultimate assimilation. One

thing that stood out for me about the National Geographic

series was the name itself – Year Million. The suggested

timescales for even more extreme levels of digital

assimilation were way out because the technology already

exists and only has to be spun into the public realm through

cover stories and human conduits who largely have no idea

where it is all really coming from.

So there we are. We have been on quite a journey since

the opening pages were turned and this is only a fraction of

what I could have said and exposed, and have done

elsewhere. The world is not what we think it is and have

been told since childhood to believe that it is. We need to

see with new ‘eyes’, think with new minds and know with

new hearts. Old thinking and ways of perceiving are a





software program and not a process led by free thought and

consciousness. We are where we are because of slavish

adherence to authority, beliefs, religions, peer-pressure,

conventions, propaganda and norms and the insistence that

everyone else do the same. This has got to stop.

Perceptions that enslaved us will not set us free. We must

look at the world anew without preconception and let

information be our guide and not immovable beliefs that

decode only self-fulfilling prophecy and illusory freedom to

mask the reality of mass control. We have to see through

the mirage and come together while there is still the

opportunity. The cell door is closing fast.

‘We must love one another or die’ – W. H . A uden

For those who have stayed with me this far there will be a

question screaming for an answer: What can we do? There

is much we can do – like change everything – but only with a

fundamental transformation of human perception and self-

identity. Without that, forget it. How can you change

something with the same mentality that created it?

If humanity wants to head off the catastrophic outcome

daily unfolding before our eyes then everything we have

ever believed has to be reevaluated and reassessed with a

truly open mind – and I mean truly. No belief system,

religious, political, scientific, financial or cultural can be

excluded. This is not only about free thought, but the nature

of physics and the way that reality functions. Some

questions we can start with: Why do I believe what I do?

Where did my beliefs come from and on what evidence? You

will invariably find that they are the result of constant

repetition by those who gleaned them from constant

repetition who gleaned them from constant repetition who

gleaned them from constant repetition. You will also

invariably find that at the end of this chain of

intergenerational repetition programming there is either no

evidence to support the belief; a fake story concocted by

who knows who, who knows when and in who knows what

circumstances; or the belief is actually someone’s opinion

long, long ago based on who knows what, who knows why

and in who knows what circumstances. I have just described

the origin of all religions which cumulatively hold-fast the

great majority of humankind in life-long perceptual

servitude and I don’t mean only frock and skullcap religions.

Almost the entirety of human society is an amalgamation of

religious worship, mostly not recognised as such, and all

founded on illusion (Fig 614).

There are 2.2 billion Christians whose whole perception of

life and reality is founded on the existence of ‘Jesus’ who did

not exist. ‘Jesus’ is just another name for a recurring hero

figure across the world each of them placed in a different

historical and cultural setting long before the version called

‘Jesus’ appeared. No, Christians will cry, that can’t be true –

the Bible says he was real. Okay, and who else? A tiny few

other references have been clearly added later to support

the official narrative. Miraculous feats that Jesus is supposed

to have done are recorded nowhere except in one book once

again written by who knows who, who knows when and in

who knows what circumstances? How likely is that? Oh, but

the disciples wrote the gospels. No ‘they’ didn’t and not

even the Church claims that. They are called Matthew, Mark,

Luke and John and the Church is quite happy for you to

associate these with the alleged disciples of the same name

but the truth is they have no idea who wrote these

contradictory texts in which genealogies are manipulated to

connect New Testament Christian heroes with Old Testament

Jewish heroes. Why do only Matthew and Luke mention the

virgin birth? Did Mark and John have the night off? Well, it

was Christmas. References to ‘Jesus’, ‘Abraham’ and ‘Mary’

can be found in the Koran because these were central



characters in the earlier Biblical texts ... another case of

‘who gleaned them from constant repetition who gleaned

them from constant repetition’. Islam has 1.6 billion

advocates for a religion founded on the ‘teachings’ of a man

called Muhammad who claimed to be the prophet of god or

Allah. How do Muslims know that and so justify calling him

the Prophet Muhammad for 1,400 years? Well, it can’t be

based on the hard evidence and so it must be ‘faith’. What

is faith? It is a belief gleaned from constant repetition by

other believers who found their own faith in the same way.

F igure 6 1 4 : Religion in all its forms.

If belief or faith is derived in and of itself without external

influence then how come people from Muslim families

overwhelmingly become Muslims and the same with Jews,

Hindus, Christians, the lot of them? Had today’s Christians

been born into a Muslim culture they would now be Muslims

and in the same way Jews would be Hindus and Muslims

would be Jews. What’s more the most vehement Christians

would be the most vehement Muslims and so on because

religion is a downloaded software program and extremes of

advocacy are mind patterns that apply the same

vehemence and absoluteness to whatever belief they take

on. Beliefs of modern Muslim extremists originate from the

18th century and a Dönmeh Jewish man Muhammad ibn

͑Abd al-Wahhab, who the British Empire teamed up with the

founder of their Dönmeh Saudi dynasty. If it wasn’t so

unbelievably tragic it would be hysterical. Muslim men have

beards because Muhammad did in the 7th century. I mean,

what? It’s not about faith – it’s a uniform, a symbol of

control. The theme is even more obvious when religions

divide into factions. Children in Protestant families tend to

be Protestant; Catholic to be Catholic; Sunni Muslim to be

Sunni and Shia to be Shia. What are the chances of that if

the faith is independently arrived upon? This ‘have faith’

nonsense is all a con which is really saying that we can’t

show you any real evidence in support of what we want you

to believe so just bloody believe it anyway – have ‘faith’. All

across society we have belief systems taken on for life

through

nothing

more

than

constant

repetition,

indoctrination and intimidation. What would childhood be

like if you refused to accept your parents’ Christian faith in

an obsessively Christian family? God (Allah or Yahweh) help

you if you do that in a Muslim or Jewish family and

thousands of deities have mercy should you resist giving

your mind away to Hinduism. Parents and communities in

this regard are tyrants and dictators imposing their will on

their children because their parents and communities

imposed their will on them. Intergenerational Chinese

whispers enforced by perceptually and often literally brutal

imposition. And we are going to meekly stand for this? The

way Jewish parents impose their faith and limitless

behaviour laws on their children is child abuse in my opinion

and the same with Muslims, Christians and every other

religious tyranny whatever name it may use. Mum, dad –

you want to give your mind away then feel free, but don’t

you dare have the audacity, arrogance and lack of respect

to insist that I must do the same. I will decide what I believe

not you.

The book is all you need I am not saying that

young people or anyone else should rebel against their

particular faith. It is none of my business to say that.

Freedom to choose means freedom to choose and not to

exchange one imposed or manipulated belief system for

another or none. I am simply saying that in pursuit of their

own self-respect and right to free thought and free choice

they might question their beliefs and see if they stand up to

scrutiny. They might ask why they believe what they do and

where that belief came from; and how did that source reach

its conclusion and on what evidence? This search will lead

back to a book or books of some kind – Bible, Koran, Talmud,

Vedas – the true origins of which are lost although fake

origins may have been invented to cover that. ‘The Book’ is

‘The Truth’ – have faith. People might further question if

their faith has a record of making the world a nicer, freer,

more loving place or whether it plays a frontline role in

control of perception and the suppression of free speech,

free thought and free choice without pressure, imposition or

intimidation. If they are honest and open with themselves in

their reevaluation and research into the origins of their faith

and its impact on human society their belief-system will be

in pieces on the floor. I know this for one simple reason:

When you can only see the tiniest infinitesimal fraction of

infinity – visible light – and live ‘on’ a planet equivalent to a

billionth the size of a pinhead then everything it is possible

to know and understand about yourself and reality is not

going to be found within the covers of a single religious

tome written by who know who, etc., etc. The title of this

book Everything You Need To Know, But Have Never Been

Told does not refer to everything that needs to be known,

but to that which will open new ways of thinking and

perceiving and a new infinite vista of potential awareness.

As I said at the beginning, this book is a start not a finish.

Religious books claim to be the start and the finish leaving

no margin for free thought and expression and the pursuit of

uniqueness. We may be points of attention within Infinite

Awareness but we are unique points of attention if we allow

ourselves to be. By expressing our individual uniqueness,

we are celebrating our unique contribution to the Infinite

Whole. Religions and The System in general want to

suppress that sense of uniqueness because this both comes

from and generates frequencies of expanded awareness

that connect us to realms of insight beyond The Program.

They want low-vibrational, Little Me uniformity to which

uniqueness is something to resist, fear, ridicule and

condemn. Such states of perception become mindless (or

rather Spiritless) and unquestioning repeaters of other

people’s views which then collectively coagulate into the

norms of ‘everybody knows that’. We live in a world of

repeaters of information that starts out in the institutions of

The System and is repeated into widespread acceptance

purely by, well, repetition. The media repeats what

politicians, scientists, academics, doctors, bankers etc. say

and they repeat what each other says. This is how the

Postage Stamp Consensus is repeated into existence.

Religion has been perpetuated by the same repetition and

so we find that politics, science, academia, medicine,

finance and all the rest are religions every bit as much as

Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Hinduism. When Zuckerberg

said Facebook could replace religion he was comparing like

with like. They all have their solidified deities, hierarchies,

belief systems, holy books or webpages. The Communist

Manifesto is to a communist what the Bible is to a Christian

and what scientific orthodoxy is to a system scientist.

Religion is not a church or temple with mass, prayers to

Mecca or evensong. That is only one expression of it.

Religion is a mental and emotional pattern of repeating

thought, perception and behaviour, another standing wave.

Only the information the standing wave retains is different

and not its state of oscillation and resonance or the way it

decodes reality (Fig 615). Show me someone who worships

their smartphone and I’ll show you the mind-pattern of a

religious fanatic and the same with Facebook addicts,

shopaholics, political persuasions, sport team fanatics,

money-worshippers and those obsessed with celebrity. They

all have a deity – Jesus, Yahweh, Allah, smartphone,

Facebook, clothing brand, political hero, Real Madrid,

money, Justin Bieber – and these hijack their focus and

sense of realty. This is exactly how bricks-and-mortar

religion works. I refer to religion as the greatest form of

mind control ever invented and they are not dispensing with

religion they are changing its public face and increasing its

reach. The progressive mindset is the same religious mind

pattern in another guise and global warming orthodoxy is

their Bible never to be questioned. They are religious

zealots who decide that they are right, all-knowing and

omnipotent and therefore by definition everyone else with a

different view must be wrong, stupid and the equivalent of

an infidel. This beyond-arrogant self-obsession is then used

to justify their demand that everyone believes what they do

and the imposition of their beliefs where necessary. Here we

have the mentality of both Sharia law fascism and the

political correctness of progressive fascism. I am right so

everyone else must be wrong and because I am right I have

the moral duty to impose my beliefs on the entire

population. Sharia law achieves this through sharia courts,

intimidation and often brutality and murder while

progressives pursue the same ends through ‘hate’ laws,

hurling abuse, banning other views and Twitter storms. They

are masks on the same mind pattern. This becomes obvious

when you observe states of consciousness and not the

body, colour, creed and background. On the face of it



purveyors of sharia law and progressives booming on about

‘diversity’ would appear to be opposites, but observe the

behaviour, attitudes and outcomes and they are opposames

– different names for the same mentality and the same

program. Breaking free of this program means genuinely

and honestly observing ourselves and seeing how we act

and behave with relation to those we say we oppose. Once

again if people are genuine and honest in doing this they

should prepare themselves for quite a shock. An honest

reevaluation of self is vital to escape the perception

programs that hold humanity in ongoing servitude. If we

don’t do this, then it’s night, night, humanity and not too



long from now either.

F igure 6 1 5 : Religion – perception control.

They

gave

us

their

mind

F igure 6 1 6 : The human plight.

© www.neilhague.com

The human mind is so obsessed with five-sense reality

that it’s easy in the last few chapters about the world of the

seen to forget what went before; but it is in the perceptually

distant realms of the unseen that the answers lie because

this is from where the problem is being orchestrated. We are

‘watching’ a holographic movie screen and what appears on

that screen as individual and collective experience is the

holographic expression of our waveform self – frequency

and oscillation patterns of mental and emotional perception

(Fig 616). The Archontic Reptilian force and its hybrid El-ite

well know this and they understand that if they can set the

patterns and oscillations of perception the five-sense world

of the movie screen will take care of itself. There is basically

one pattern but they hide this truth behind an explosion of

names and labels – religion, politics, right, centrist, left,

progressive, Zionist, medicine, science, finance, academia,

class, culture, race, income bracket, the list is endless. They

are all the same mind pattern with their deities, hierarchies

and self-certainty of being ‘right’. All are pursuing their own

interests at the expense of fairness, justice and true

diversity. From this has come ‘identity politics’, the

destroyer of all that is fair, just and diverse. Identity politics

describes the mind pattern that I am highlighting. It seeks

not what is fair and just for everyone, and certainly not what

is diverse and unique, but only what suits and benefits me,

me, me. A banker or hedge fund manager wakes up every

morning to increase the bottom line no matter what the

consequences are for others (see George Soros). They have

no empathy or thought for those they crush, destroy, even

kill all over the world in pursuit of personal gain, power and

money for its own sake. A progressive will condemn these

people (except Soros) and go on marches in protest against

austerity and the selfish power of financial capital. But what

do progressives do? They wake up every morning to impose

their beliefs and behaviour patterns on as many more

people as possible calling for further laws to censor opinion

and speech no matter what the consequences for others

and their basic rights. They have no empathy or thought for

those whose freedoms they crush or those who see their

communities transformed in a few years into a completely

different culture. They pursue a personal agenda for its own

sake and this is only another expression of the banking me,

me, me, the same mind pattern with a different alias.

Progressives don’t look at their impact on others any more

than bankers do and when it comes to selfishness it’s a ten-

all draw. Does Victoria Kawesa consider the impact on

ethnic Swedes of her demand to remove all Swedish border

controls? Of course not – it’s all about her. For bankers, it’s

all about them as it is with progressives. All these LGBTIQ

labels are identity politics meets the Twilight Zone. Identity

labels are being subdivided into ever smaller parts and will

soon enter the realm of nanotechnology. Each new label and

subdivided label is another me, me, me, another onion skin

between Body-Mind and the Infinite Awareness that we all

are. Does a naked man claiming to be a woman consider the

feelings of girls in a changing room that he/she demands to

have the right to enter? No. It’s all about him/her, him/her,

him/her. The mind pattern is becoming ever more extreme

in its narcissistic sense of entitlement and we are seeing

this in finance, politics, corporations and certainly among

progressives and their associated LGBTIQ.

If people face genuine discrimination because of race,

religion or sexual orientation I am right with them. My

attitudes are described by the dictionary definition (not the

political one) of liberal as in ... ‘Favourable to or in accord

with concepts of maximum individual freedom possible,

especially as guaranteed by law and secured by

governmental protection of civil liberties ... favouring or

permitting freedom of action, especially with respect to

matters of personal belief or expression’. This sums me up

to a tee. The problem is that progressives are not liberal,

but the very opposite. We even have a political party in the

UK that calls itself Liberal when it is progressive and not

liberal. If all this was about discrimination I would be

standing at their shoulder, but most of it is not. It’s about

identity

domination

and,

ironically,

privilege

and

omnipotence. It’s about me, me, me. They are all the bloody



same, but they just can’t see it. I meet black people, Muslim

people, Asian people, women of all backgrounds, men and

women of different sexual preferences and they have come

to my events all over the world. They don’t need a label to

set them apart from society because if they come to my

events they know that labels are only temporary masks for

Infinite Awareness, anyway. Why can’t we meet each other

on that level where there are no fault-lines of manufactured

division? Where there is no black, white, Muslim, Jew,

LGBTIQ and only the same consciousness experiencing

itself? Progressives and their LGBTIQ wing instead want to

build more and more walls to divide us, using finer and finer

divisions of identity. They are not bringing the world

together as they claim – they are driving it apart (Fig 617).

Groupies

F igure 6 1 7 : Remember, remember and let us never forget again.

Another consequence of identity labels is that they create

group-think. There are two aspects to this and both

extremely negative in their impact. One is that large

numbers of people think the same way. This is nothing more

than mind patterns being vibrated into line or entrained by

the power of the group-think frequency as with the example

of violins. Group-think is further enforced and imposed by

technological frequencies with which humanity is constantly

bombarded and by progressive non-liberals through

intimidation and exclusion of those who wish to think

differently. Social media has become the digital

Guantanamo Bay of this enforcement in that the ‘wrong’

opinions are sure to attract the wrath of the Provisional

Progressives who so love diversity. Agree with our view or

take this you loser. Group-think of this kind is the bread and

butter of mass perception control and all the social

engineering operations have this prominently displayed in

their mind control manuals. There is another version of

group-think that involves literally thinking in terms of groups

with no thought for individuality or, yet another irony,

diversity. Labels are the very currency of this type of group-

think because labels are invariably applied to groups rather

than individuals. What comes from this is the black and

white group labelling so central to political correctness and

its hierarchical structure of perceived victimhood ... black

trumps white, black women trump black men, transgender

trumps black women and so on. You can also add Islam

trumps Christianity which is associated with white men and

so reflects the pattern and ditto with migrants trump

indigenous population. Zionism, of course, trumps everyone

through its web of global propaganda and intimidation. The

problem with this when you approach the scene with even a

modicum of intelligence is that not everyone in a group, no

matter what it may be, is the same in terms of personality,

behaviour and intent. Every group will span the spectrum

from nice bloke to what a bastard. None of this is ever taken

into account by the group-thinkers and this is why you see

such hesitation and bewilderment when a member of one

minority victim group does or says something that slights

another victim group. But you are a transgender victim and

you’ve just criticised Muslim victims ... I don’t understand ...I

have a headache ... WARNING! WARNING! SYSTEM FAILURE!

CAN’T COMPUTE! SHUT DOWN AND REBOOT! You can

understand these matters very easily when you realise that

every group spans the spectrum from nice bloke to what a

bastard, but system failure is inevitable when you can only

think in groups rather than individuals (Fig 618).

Progressives overwhelmingly look the other way in the face

of migrant crime, gangs and no-go areas because it requires

a break-out from group-think into nice bloke and what a

bastard. Those who are supposed to support women’s rights

will therefore ignore migrant rapes on the grounds that they

breach the group-think concept leaving them no choice but

to choose one group over another instead of thinking

individually. Migrant victims trump white women victims and

so take a blind eye and turn it. This is of course completely

and utterly infantile but then progressive extremists are

infantile as are the truly extreme right (as opposed to

anyone to the right of Karl Marx must be extreme right). Left

and Right at their mutual extremes are mirrors of each other

like all apparent polarities. One progressive woman was

raped by a migrant but said she did not report this because

she didn’t want to create racial tension. So what did she

think that migrant was likely to do again? This is the sheer

madness of it all. Progressive group-think gives white men

(and often white women) little chance of being heard in the

face of victim groups further up the hierarchy because their

compartment is labelled colonial racist bigots unless they

have repented and said three Hail Non-binaries. Mary’s are

so non-PC. Old white men that don’t agree with progressives

are the lowest of the low – the very dregs of the cesspit –

but if you agree with them you can still be a progressive

hero even as an old white man as we see with UK Labour

Party leader Jeremy Corbyn. Agreeing with them appears to

be the bit that saves you from the sackcloth and stuff. I

have tried, and here and there I do, just nothing like

enough. I’ll get my sackcloth and start a fire. I am not

defending white people, old or otherwise, as a group. There

are some lovely white people and old white people, and

some extraordinarily bigoted and psychopathic monsters.

The difference is that I am aware that every other racial

group contains the same mix. When was the last time a

white father killed his daughter for having a relationship

outside her faith, race or caste? If we view people by what

they say and do and not by their race, religion and

background then a rapist is a rapist, not a Muslim rapist,

and a bigot is a bigot, not a white bigot.



F igure 6 1 8 : A Muslim doesn’t like gays? Oh, no – I’ve been

triggered. Safe

space, safe space ...

I have met many homeless people and most have been

lovely and in desperate need of help; but some have been

deeply unpleasant and even violent. Most people I have met

on state support have been genuine people struggling with

their families to survive in often dire circumstances on pay-

outs that were not even close to being adequate or humane.

I have met some others who were parasiting off the

population by taking money from the state that they could

earn for themselves if they were not so monumentally lazy

with a stunning sense of entitlement. I have met

transgender people struggling to come to terms with their

feelings who were some of the nicest people you could wish

to know. I have met and observed others so incredibly

arrogant and self-obsessed it takes the breath away. I have

met gay people who fall into both camps. I have met

Muslims all over the world including the Middle East and the

great majority have been among the kindest, most

considerate and generous of people (generous while

themselves often having very little). I have met and

observed others so utterly psychopathic that they plumb the

depths of evil and depravity and there are also those who

are quite okay with looking the other way while Muslim

gangs rape and abuse children. I have met Jewish people

who want to see justice and fairness for all and I have met

and observed others who are so racist, bigoted and lustful

for violence that psychopathic hardly suffices. The vast

majority of black people I have met have been terrific and I

absolutely love their energy and humour. I have met others

who are race-obsessed, violent and can’t wait to find the

next mirror. I have met enormous numbers of white people

who are kind, considerate and only want to live their lives in

peace and harmony with everyone. I have met others who

are body-obsessed, country-obsessed, racial supremacists

and those so psychopathic and so callous, heartless and

ruthless that monster is the only word that gets close.

No society can ever function with justice and fairness for

all unless these most obvious of truths about human

behaviour are acknowledged and where necessary

addressed. Take the term psychopath alone. Are we really

saying that so-called minority groups don’t all contain

psychopathic personalities? The counterfeit spirit is not

infused into one racial group but all of them. How much it

manifests in behaviour and perception depends on how

strong is the consciousness of the person pushing the other

way. (1) Psychopaths are found in every racial, religious and

sexual group, and (2) not everyone in those groups is a

psychopath. This tells us one simple fact that is screaming

out to be heard: people in any group are not all the same. I

know this will be obvious to almost everyone reading this

book, but I am talking to Provisional Progressives here so

bear with me.

The refusal to acknowledge these differences in

personality no matter the religious or racial background

leads to horrific behaviour by migrants in terms of crime

and abuse of women being brushed away while someone

lifts the carpet. This in turn generates gathering frustration

in the indigenous population which the Provisionals then

have the nerve to complain about when they are the cause.

A recognition that all racial groups break down into nice

bloke and what a bastard would lead to far greater

assessment of who is allowed into a country and who is not.

The lack of such assessment amid the constant cacophony

of ‘you’re all racist bigots’, and the fear of being labelled as

such by the heart-on-the-sleeves, means that the countries

of Europe are facing absolute disaster, not least through

inter-racial violence, the imposition of Sharia law and

organised crime. If we continue as we are it’s Sweden and

Italy today but everyone else tomorrow. An end of judging

groups only in their totality would allow some compassion

and empathy for those in British and other European cities

who have seen the communities and culture they grew up

with usurped in a remarkably short time by an incoming

culture – some of whom wish to integrate, but others who

seek to take over. Stepping back from ‘you’re all racist

bigots’ and ‘we’re all as pure as the driven snow’ would

allow some wide-angle peripheral vision to examine how the

migrant crisis began, who is really behind it and to what

end. Of course the El-ite don’t want this to happen because

of what would be found – as outlined in this book. In that

regard alone Provisional Possessives are playing a

magnificent and essential role in protecting the agenda of

the less-than-one-percent that they claim to so oppose. We

need maturity and expanded awareness if we are to turn

this world around because without that nothing can change.

We have to start seeing everyone as an individual

irrespective of race, colour, creed and background because

group-think is incredibly destructive in so many different

ways and downright ridiculous when it comes to fair and

balanced judgement. How can people consider themselves



to be adult and mature when they won’t listen to what

someone is saying just because they are considered part of

a group they collectively don’t like? It’s not who says it – it’s

whether it’s true. How often does the mentally of ‘you’re

just a racist bigot’ and ‘you don’t care about the planet’

ever consider the information and evidence of those they

abuse by reflex action? Exactly.

Life is a mirror These apparently ‘this world’ matters

are vital to understand at much deeper and unseen levels of

reality. The world of the seen is only a projection from the

unseen after all. Our mind patterns – state of frequency and

oscillation – dictate the level at which we interact



individually and collectively with the quantum realm of

possibility and probability. Low-frequency states interact

with the quantum field at low levels of frequency and so

make manifest experience, again individually and

collectively, which reflects that. We return to the foundation

of how we create reality: Accidents happen, that’s what

everyone says. But in a quantum Universe there are no such

things as accidents, only possibilities and probabilities

folded into existence by perception.

F igure 6 1 9 : Without this nothing can change.

F igure 6 2 0 : We are the solution because we have created the

problem.

If perception doesn’t change nothing will change – or can.

We don’t need a revolution of fighting. That’s how we got

here. We need a revolution of perception which is the only

revolution that will change anything for the better (Fig 619).

Archontic Reptilians and their hybrid gofers structure and

manipulate human society to herd humanity into their

foundation mind pattern with all its different labels that hide

the fact that they’re all the same basic perceptual state. I

have been describing this throughout the book in terms of

Body-Mind or five-sense mind. It is the bubble, the

perception prison, the Postage Stamp which isolates the

conscious mind and lower levels of the subconscious from

their true and infinite self. Once perceptually isolated and

detached from the influence of expanded awareness the

isolated fragment can be programmed with the perceptions

that suit the agenda of mass control and those perceptions

will express themselves as the frequency or mind pattern at

which we individually and collectively operate. These

patterns then interact with the fields of possibility and

probability and fold into existence a holographic expression

of themselves. In this way, what we call ‘external’

experience is only a mirror of the inner self. You want to

change the ‘outer’? Then change the inner. There is no other

way when the ‘outer’ is only a decoded reflection of the

inner (Fig 620). This is true of our individual lives and the

world in general. Archontic Reptilians don’t have to control

every last detail to enslave humanity, they only have to

dictate the collective mind pattern and everything else

pretty much takes care of itself for the reasons I am

explaining. This principle can be described in the simplest of

terms. If enough people hate we must live in a reality

founded on the frequency of hatred. What you fight you

become (Fig 621). If we perceive ourselves to be apart from

everyone else through identification with Phantom Self we

must live in a reality founded on division and apartness in

the name of race, religion, culture, income and so on. It is

cause and effect. What impact do you think a protest march

called a ‘Day of Rage’ is going to have in terms of the reality

this mind pattern will create? Day of Ragers focus the

attention of rage on their target, in this case the

government, and those representing the target reflect back

their frequency of contempt and resistance. Another day,

another electrical circuit, another standing wave of rage and

resistance, rage and resistance, jogging on the spot and

taking us nowhere. Up the ante to a full-on riot and the

same happens but on an even more extreme level. What if

protest was done from an awareness of how reality really

works? What if we dropped the protest bit altogether? Unfair

government actions create a resistance against. Protest is to

protest against. Resistance to protest is to resist against.

The protest against and the resist against set up the

standing wave because the resistance is only the protest

reflected back which is how standing waves are formed.

Protestors resist government and government resist

protestors – to and fro, to and fro in mutual oscillation.

Archontic Reptilians and their hybrids are seeking to

manipulate this very situation because it changes nothing



and the collective emotional impact provides breakfast,

dinner and tea. This is why people like Soros are so intent

on maximising protest. Someone has to break the circuit

and this can only be done by looking at reality in a different

way. How about we ditch the banners which are symbols of

resistance against? How about we stop shouting abuse and

slogans which are symbols of resistance against? How about

people turn up in large numbers at the selected spot, stand

or sit down, open their heart (chakra vortex) and project

love at those they disagree with? If we want to live in a

loving world we must be loving. Hatred doesn’t tend to

work. Oh, testosterone cries, don’t give me that love

changes all crap. We must rage. Which will produce what? It

can only create a reality founded on rage because the focus

of the rage will reflect it back to create a standing wave of

rage. Good thinking, well done you. Love breaks the circuit

and takes away the power of any adversary while rage just

further

empowers

them.

Albert

Einstein

said:

F igure 6 2 1 : Violent protest v violent state. Opposames at war.

Everything is energy and that’s all there is to it. Match the

frequency of the reality you want and you can’t help but



get that reality. It can be no other way. This is not

philosophy. This is physics.

F igure 6 2 2 : How we got here.

You don’t get the frequency of love from the frequency of

hate or the frequency of peace from the frequency of rage.

The world is drowning in hate and rage and you only have to

spend five minutes scanning social media to see that.

Conflict and war are the collective manifestation of that

hate and rage even when it comes from those – as it so

often does – who rage against hate and war. Frequencies are

frequencies. They don’t change because of what you hate

and rage against. Hate and rage are frequencies in and of

themselves and the rest is a cover story. Israelis hating

Palestinians and Palestinians hating Israelis are both

generating the same frequency. I understand the hatred by

many Palestinians after the way they have been treated

since the Second World War, but I am pointing out that hate

just generates more hate in an oscillating standing wave

and maintains the status quo. What do you think Zionist

apologists are generating when they rage against the

perceived hate of others? Those who are breaking free of

Archontic mind patterns must be the ones to break the

circuits of which Israel-Palestine is but one. Enslaved minds

complete the circuits at both polarities and only awakening

minds can break them. When we replace protests of rage

with statements and actions of intent based on heart

awareness rather than head awareness we break the

circuits and they can’t be restored until the subject of that

focus reflects back that frequency of love and creates a new

standing wave – a new status quo – founded on love (Figs

622 and 623). Even if they don’t (and they won’t initially)

the fact that you have broken your end of the circuit means

that movement is now possible because the standing wave

(status quo) has collapsed. It must do so when standing

waves depend for their existence on the same frequency

being reflected back and forth. Project anger at police they

will reflect it back. Standing wave in position, sir. This

applies to all relationships and interactions from the

personal to the global because it’s all the same ‘physics’.

Try it – it works.

When someone is raging against you don’t reflect that

back but open your heart and rise above it (literally in

frequency terms). You take their power away because you

are not reflecting their rage back and empowering its effect.

You are deleting its power because without a circuit it must

disappear on into the ether and dissolve. Rage without

constant replenishment (reflection) must blow itself out very

quickly. Gathering in numbers to make your point with

smiles and a joyful celebration of unity is a different and

higher frequency to that of rage. Such loving exposure of

injustice will also have a far greater impact and attract far

greater sympathy from the watching public than violence or

screaming anger which turns people off in droves. The



power of the El-lite also requires that we take them

seriously. The more seriously we take them the more power

we give them. They are pathetic. We should laugh in their

face, not wave a fist. This will disarm them quicker than

anything. There should be more laughter in general. I hear

so little as I observe people passing through life. Mass

protests rarely change anything because they empower

through the circuitry what the protest is about. Protests of

this kind can be a festival of virtue signalling – look at me

protest, see how good, kind and caring I am. Year after year,

decade after decade I watch this unfold from marches

through London and Washington to Occupy Wall Street.

What a contrast to the ‘I have a dream’ marches inspired by

Martin Luther King who spoke not of hate and rage, but of

love and the need for inclusion and everyone coming

together. How effective would Gandhi have been if he had

carried an assault rifle? King didn’t rage against the ‘enemy’

in his ‘I Have A Dream’ speech and so create more fault-

lines of division and standing waves of mutual rage. He

spoke of everyone being treated the same with none

excluded

or

hierarchically

set

apart:

F igure 6 2 3 : How we get out of here.

But there is something that I must say to my people, who

stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace

of justice: In the process of gaining our rightful place, we

must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to

satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of

bitterness and hatred. We must forever conduct our

struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. We

must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into

physical violence. Again and again, we must rise to the

majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force

[Spirit force in the context of this book].

The marvellous new militancy which has engulfed the

Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all

white people, for many of our white brothers, as

evidenced by their presence here today, have come to

realise that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. And

they have come to realise that their freedom is

inextricably bound to our freedom.

We cannot walk alone.

Today’s PC progressives please note. King went on with

words that never fail to make me cry whenever I hear them:

I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the

sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners

will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.

I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi,



a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering

with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an

oasis of freedom and justice.

I have a dream that my four little children will one day live

in a nation where they will not be judged by the colour of

their skin but by the content of their character.

I have a dream today!

I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its

vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping

with the words of ‘interposition’ and ‘nullification’ – one

day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls

will be able to join hands with little white boys and white

girls as sisters and brothers.

I have a dream today!

How more effective Black Lives Matter, Black Bloc and

Antifa would be if they listened to King instead of taking the

route of rage that Soros is so keen that they do (Figs 624

and 625). Racist police officers and raging anti-racists create

yet another circuit of mutual rage empowerment. Martin

Luther King rightly said: Non-violence means avoiding not

only external physical violence, but also internal violence of

spirit. You not only refuse to shoot a man. You refuse to hate

him.

Love

is

the

ultimate

power

F igure 6 2 4 : How Soros must laugh.



F igure 6 2 5 : Lest we forget.

King called for people to realise in effect that we are all

one – all God’s children as he put it. He wasn’t demanding a

new hierarchy to replace the old one with new masters

usurping the old. He was calling for no hierarchies and no

masters – as I do today. He would have been aghast at the

thought that white men no matter what their character

would be lumped together by group-think under one label of

colonial racist bigots; and that great philosophers would be

banned or marginalised for the crime of being white. As he

said: ‘Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of

God’s children.’ He meant ALL people and not only new self-

appointed racial, religious and political elites to replace the

old self-appointed racial, religious and political elites.

Archontic mind patterns see talk of love as weak while rage

and even violent rage is strong, but the opposite is the case.

The absence of hate and anger does not mean passivity –

anything but. I have been accused of many things, but

passivity has never been one of them. The love that I speak

of is not that of physical attraction, or ‘mind love’ as I call it,

but an expression of Spirit which knows all is one. From here

comes ultimate strength, not weakness and passivity. This

love will never cease to do what it knows to be right

whatever the provocation, attempted intimidation or

consequences. Love does not compute doing what it knows

to be wrong or acting only in self-interest. Resonating the

frequency of love from the heart does not mean that you lie

down and let people walk all over you. Love is power. Love

is strength. Nothing else compares because it changes

reality by folding into existence possibilities and

probabilities that relate to that frequency. Love is not only

for others but for self and love for self (very different from

self-obsession and conceit) means self-respect that will not

allow others to impose themselves against our will. Love

doesn’t protest against injustice and bombard its targets

with hatred – it simply says, ‘I’m not having it.’ I refuse to

cooperate with that which seeks to impose its will upon me

and delete my freedom. The word ‘no’ does not have to be

delivered with fury on your face. It just means to say ‘no’

and mean it. How many people go on protest marches

saying ‘no’ and then go home and accept what they were

protesting against? So ‘no’ doesn’t really mean ‘no’ then?

Love’s version of ‘no’ involves ceasing to cooperate with

oppression, not to wave a banner at it and then walking

away.



F igure 6 2 7 : Mass non-cooperation is far more effective than mass

protest.

The number of people enforcing the will of the tyrannical

El-ite is absolutely tiny compared with the number being

imposed upon (Fig 627). How difficult would it be to identify

those areas where the state particularly depends on public

cooperation and then withdraw that cooperation in crucial

numbers until the injustice and imposition is no more?

Assembling in vast numbers at one crucial point, sitting

down and refusing to move is a form of non-cooperation if it

affects the ability of The System to function. Mass non-

cooperation is far more effective than only protest. The



latter affects the police but non-cooperation affects The

System itself of which police are only pawns. We need to

understand the scale on which the tiny El-ite depend for

their ongoing agenda on the cooperation of their target

population because in that sense alone we have the power

and not them (Fig 628). But to make that number superiority

count we have to stop fighting each other. On a personal

level of non-cooperation – if smart phones are crucial to the

El-ite desired outcome then stop using them if you can, or

giving them to your children. If smart meters are vital to

what the El-lite are creating then refuse to accept them. If

videogames are rewiring the brain then stop playing them

and buying them for your kids. By age 21 many young

people – especially boys – can have spent 10,000 hours

playing videogames with violence often a central theme. In

terms of the effects on their brain alone this is insanity and

parents can stop that or at least reduce it for the benefit of

the child. But do enough have the will? Clearly not and it is

no good complaining about the effect while refusing to

address the cause. If 5G is crucial to the technological

control grid – and it absolutely is – then we must do

everything possible to block that happening and cease to

cooperate with its introduction. Boycott companies and

countries that act against the public interest and more than

anything refuse to be silenced by anyone (Fig 629). If we do

all this and so much more from the heart without malice and

rage we are energetically adding to the solution and not the

problem. You will be amazed how things would change once

the resistance polarity is removed and the non-cooperation

vibe founded on love takes its place. Feedback circuits

galore must fall in the face of this and it is they that hold the

entire System together.

F igure 6 2 8 : The tail has been wagging the elephant.



F igure 6 2 9 : Love in action.

Sponge-minds and free minds Ceasing to

cooperate includes no longer accepting without question

what the state and its controlling El-ite tell us to believe.

The bottom line of bottom lines is the control of human

perception and so people must take their minds back. It is

surely obvious by now that the authorities whether political,

administrative, corporate, scientific, academic or media

mislead us all the time either by themselves being misled or

through downright lies. I don’t mean little ones, either, but

enormous distortions of the truth and reality. By far the

safest filter system is to believe nothing The System tells us

until it proves worthy of acceptance, and with every day

that passes this gets less and less likely – with whoppers

becoming ever more whopping. Keep asking the question

‘Who benefits?’ – Who benefits from me believing what they

are telling me? Remember that words don’t change the

world only outcomes do. The outcome will invariably tell you

who was behind events that justified or led to the outcome

and you can see the process at an earlier stage by asking

when an event happens – what will be the outcome if I

believe what they are telling me? Instead of accepting that

doctors and the pharmaceutical industry know best, do your

own research into vaccines, drugs and body-destroying

cancer treatments. What are the alternatives that address

the waveform blueprint rather than the holographic illusion?

We take our perceptions back by deciding for ourselves

what those perceptions are instead of downloading them

from The System’s apps. We can do this by overriding

Mainstream Everything and doing our own research before

reaching our own conclusions. So what if other people don’t

like what we choose to believe? This is so important. Don’t

be intimidated by those who attack or ridicule you for your

views. Who the hell are they to tell you what to think? What

scale of arrogance and ignorance does it require for people

to believe that everyone must believe what they do (and it

is usually Postage Stamp myopia anyway). They are entitled

to their view but we are entitled to ours and any form of

expanded awareness would never accept such imposition of

perception. I don’t care if it is parents, teachers, academics,

scientists, doctors, journalists, sad Internet trolls, whoever.

Stay out of my mind unless I choose to invite you in because

what I think is none of your business. Please don’t believe

anything that I have written in this book unless it feels right

to you.

Those that seek to force their beliefs on others have

issues of self-worth though outwardly they may try to hide

that with bravado. I have met many outwardly confident

people, even arrogantly so, who were wobbling jellies inside.

Secure people don’t need others to think like them and I can

tell you from experience that so many academics and

scientists (especially those of the Skeptic Society variety)

set out to constantly trash those who challenge the Postage

Stamp because they are terrified that those they attack may

be right and, oh, no, worst of all, that they are wrong.

Questioning and being a skeptic are not the same thing.

Questions just dispassionately question to see if something

stands up to scrutiny, but skeptics set out from the start

with the intent of discrediting anything beyond the pea-size

perceptions of The System. The possibility that what is

being said could be right never enters their little heads. How

could it be right if The System says otherwise and The

System knows all? They think they are so intellectually

superior but they are just passive repeaters of what The

System has told them to believe. If we are to escape The

Program and control by the Matrix then alongside this total

reevaluation of self, life and reality we must drop the group-

think in both of the versions I have described. No more

believing what the group says because it’s a group no

matter how large or small it may be. We are individual

expressions of Infinite Attention not an ant colony and we

need to stop behaving like one (Fig 630). Oh, but you will be

excluded from your group if you don’t agree with them?

Well, fuck ’em then. Why would anyone want to be part of a

group that didn’t respect their right to their own

perceptions? If people need to be in a group they should

find another with more respect. I have never been a group-

joiner – it’s just not my scene – and one of my rare and

thankfully brief experiences of being in a group a few years

ago was such a nightmare it will never be repeated. The

power-struggles within groups are a sight to behold and for

groups to work in mutual support rather than collective

entrainment they need to be based on expanded states of

awareness that are genuinely heart-centred and genuinely

respectful of another’s right to be different. Progressives

and their Internet troll seek-and-destroy command system

(see Twitter storm) are highly skilled in demanding and

intimidating subordination to the group (hive) mind. They

are indeed being used to herd and corral humanity into the

Archontic hive mind around their progressive belief system.

The same is happening with politicians, with Blair-blueprint

leaders or progressives popping up all over the place now,



especially in Europe. We must not bow to this group think

and respond with open hearts and unbreakable

determination not to concede our uniqueness to the mob

and the blob. I know that for many this will not be easy and

the same with everything else we have to do to head-off

total human enslavement. But, hey, I never said that it

would. We have travelled a long way down the road marked

Shit Street and it is going to take some turning back. We

are, however, lest we forget again, All That Is And Ever Can

Be and so we have to be in with a chance; but this is

dependent on self-identity with that infinite expression of

self and not with Ethel on the checkout and Bill at the

bakery.

F igure 6 3 0 : Better ask the queen.

Healing the divide and ending the rule No

positive change is possible without a total transformation in

humanity’s self-identity. Perceiving ourselves in terms of our

name, race, culture, religion, job, lifestyle and life story

(what I call Phantom Self) is the very foundation of every

problem (Fig 631). If we go on like this those problems must

continue because their cause continues. Phantom Self

creates the perception of an isolated individual amid

isolated individuals. That can be a lonely place. From this

comes a belief in ‘Little Me’ or dog-eat-dog depending on

your personality and provides every possible fault-line and

schism you can imagine to secure the all-important divide

and rule. Colour, race, religion, income bracket all take on a

sense of importance and relevance that they do not when

you self-identify with the ‘I’ that we all are – Infinite

Awareness (Fig 632). Phantom Self labels are what we are

experiencing and not what we are. The Hidden Hand has

done an amazingly effective job of manipulating humankind

into self-identifying with what we are experiencing and not

with what is having the experience – awareness, a state of

being aware. Phantom Self basically perceives reality only

through the five-senses where everything and everyone

appears to be apart from everything else. When you self-

identify with Infinite Awareness having the experience, your

perception expands from the twigs to the forest. You see

that everything and everyone is connected. From this

perspective race, religion and sexual preference are

irrelevant to self-identity because they are an experience

and not an ‘I’ in its widest sense. How utterly ironic there

will be those who accuse me of being racist, anti-Muslim,

antiSemitic and transphobic for what I have written in this

book when I come from a sense of reality in which all of

those things are irrelevant to true self-identity. But this is

what happens with Phantom Self (and there are none more

captured by its illusions that Zionist extremists, Provisional

Progressives, Islamic extremists and white supremacists).

You may note that in the realm of Phantom Self, Zionism

and Islam oppose each other, Provisional Progressives

oppose white supremacists (and sometimes Zionist



extremists) and white supremacists oppose Islam, Zionism

and progressives. Their body-centred self-identity makes

them all appear different to each other when they are all

enslaved in the prison of Phantom Self. I look at those same

people and groups and see aspects of the same



consciousness entrapped in the illusion of separateness and

the confusion between experience and self. I come from the

ultimate non-racist, non-sexist sense of reality and yet I will

be dubbed racist by those who are all for their different

reasons obsessed with race. The world is indeed upside

down, a colossal inversion.

F igure 6 3 1 : Yep, crystal clear, isn’t it?



F igure 6 3 2 : Not what ‘they’ want us to believe that it is.

F igure 6 3 3 : When all illusion is stripped away this is what remains.

Self-identification with Infinite Awareness and recognising

that Phantom Self is just that – a phantom – has fantastic

implications for the ‘individual’ expression of consciousness

and human reality collectively. Phantom Self with its myriad

of myopia and Little Me perspectives is a very low level of

frequency and interacts with the quantum field of possibility

and probability within that same frequency band. It can do

no other. This folds into existence an individual and

collective reality that reflects this myopia and limited vision

– the world that we see (Fig 633). A sense of apartness

manifests a holographic world of apartness. A sense of

isolation and division manifests a world of isolated division

in which the lines between people and groups become ever

more clearly drawn. These lines must become more extreme

as self-identity is divided into endless subdivisions

empowered by their political wing of identity politics. Sense

of perception = experienced reality. This should be

displayed on the wall of every home, business, school,

college, university, government building and military

establishment the world over along with ‘Change perception

and you change reality’. You will see at the back of the book

that we have had posters produced to this end. Here we

have the Golden Key that can unlock every door and

gateway. While we see ourselves as apart we will be apart;

when we perceive all to be One then all will be One. I don’t

mean that we will all morph into each other and everyone

will be the same. Expanded awareness is about celebrating

infinite diversity and not fusing into one neutral blob. That is

what happens when we fall into states of consciousness

confinement with its perception of limited possibility (Fig

634 overleaf). Look around at the sameness manifested by

this mentality in every area of human society. Self-

identification with Infinite awareness having the experience

is expressed as a high and expanded frequency to match its

expanded perspective. This interacts with the quantum field

of possibility and probability on a level and span of

frequency limited only by the person’s ability to expand

awareness. In that sense it is limitless. What a different

reality this manifests. No more Little Me which is only a

figment of the Little Me perception and therefore cannot

exist within the decoded realms of Infinite Me perception

(Fig 635). Life becomes wave after wave of potential

diversity, inspiration and insight because of the range of

possibility and probability that you are now tapping into. You

are dancing to a different rhythm, beating a different drum

and the world will call you mad. Enjoy! I have long been

through this process and increasing numbers are doing the

same. They often ask why their lives are suddenly such a

synchronistic adventure full of ‘coincidence’ and insightful

experience. This is why. They also ask why their old life is



falling apart, not always pleasantly, but how can this not

be? The perception frequency that manifested the old life

has gone and with that must go its holographic expression.

Relationships may end or change and the same with jobs,

location and circles of friends to reflect the new frequency of

perception although relationships can continue and deepen



should partners make the same perceptual leap. If the life

you wanted to change is falling apart during this transition

then embrace that and celebrate its demise. It could be

worse – your life could have stayed like it was indefinitely.

F igure 6 3 4 : Phantom Self and its programmed perceptions can

only manifest

within the frequency band they represent.

F igure 6 3 5 : Expanded mind – expanded possibility.

The same happens collectively when enough people go

with this transformation and begin to impact on the

collective field. The sum total of human perception

manifests as what we see in our lives and on the TV news.

The Archontic Reptilian force and its hybrid El-ite know how

this process works and they know that if they can

manipulate human perception they can deliver human

experience via the decoding processes of humans

themselves. Collective senses of isolation and division are

called wars, class, race, religion, haves and have nots. When

we see each other as One – literally expressions of the same

Infinite Awareness – that sense of reality must, repeat must,

become our experienced reality. How could it be any other

way when the seen realm of experience is only a reflection

of the unseen realm of waveform perception? Divisions can

only be healed when divisions are no longer perceived. They

are but illusions to keep us apart. Be gone with them. This is

how we can change our collective reality. We don’t need

politicians, economists, scientists and academics that serve

the old thinking and perceiving. We simply need new

thinking and perceiving. I understand why from the five-

sense perspective it appears that change at best must be

slow and at worse not change at all or further deteriorate. It

seems to be an almost unimaginable task to change a world

in such a state with so many politicians and corporations to

persuade. Where do you start? But there are two things to

say immediately about that. Firstly, we should not accept

even slow change for the better in terms of fairness and

justice for all or what Martin Luther King called ‘the

tranquilising drug of gradualism’. This is for five-sense

perception not infinite perception. Change perception and

you change the world derived from those perceptions – now.

Secondly, there is no need to persuade pillars and gofers of

the global Establishment to act in humanity’s best interests

or to have endless meetings with someone taking the

minutes. We change our own reality by changing ourselves

and we change our collective reality by collectively

changing ourselves. The more we self-identify with Infinite

Awareness and put Phantom Self in its place the more that

humanity’s interaction with possibility and probability will be

transformed

and

thus

its

holographic

expression.

Everything, everything, everything comes from that and

without it nothing comes, changes or moves on. In the

simplest of terms humanity’s low-frequency self-identity is

creating the current world of the seen and an expansion into

high frequency self-identity must change everything by

pulling out of the quantum field other possibilities and

probabilities and folding them into holographic existence

(Fig 636). If we do this we will experience the effect as the

control system (a low-frequency manifestation) unravelling.

It may seem that events and happenings make this so, but

in truth these will be only holographic expressions of the

transition between decoded realities. We will have

collectively perceived a different reality and holographic

experience can do nothing but reflect that change. This is

too simple? No – the opposite is true. The way we have tried

to change things up to now has been too complicated.

Humanity has been trying to change the movie on the

movie screen. We need to go direct to the projection –

where it is all coming from – and then, only then, can the

movie change. As the Cat Stevens (Yusuf Islam) song goes:

‘If you want to sing out, sing out. If you want to be free, be

free.’ Know it and it will be. Now it becomes even clearer

why the Archontic manipulators have worked so incessantly

to keep this knowledge from us. A collective perception of

connection and unity will manifest as divisions fading and

with that will go conflict, full-out war and the desire to

suppress others for our own perceived benefit and interest.

The only question that remains is will we do this in large

enough numbers to make it happen? The door is there to

open and it is our choice if we give it a push and walk

through or stay in the La La Land of left-brain enslavement.





F igure 6 3 6 : Ethel at the checkout.

No more victims

F igure 6 3 7 : Perceptions are frequencies and so dictate the

frequencies with

which we interact with the quantum field of possibility and probability.

The Archontic distortion and its allies are not seeking to

turn the entire young generation into victims for a bit of fun

and a laugh. The same mind-scam is not being played on

adults for a lark. Victim perception = victim experience and

victim experience = protect me Big Brother. Victimhood is a

feedback loop with victimisation or the sense of it. What can

a victim perception do except make a frequency connection

with victim possibility and probability? The Hidden Hand

knows this and the result is Generation Jelly or Generation

Snowflake. When I say they need to grow some backbone I

am really saying they need to change their perception of

self from victim to Infinite Awareness and know that they

have the power to control and dictate their reality. Life is not

to be feared and run away from, but to be celebrated and

experienced to the fullest (Fig 637). Life as it is lived in

human reality is an absurdity and if we take absurdity

seriously we create a standing wave of ongoing absurdity.

Laugh in its face and break the circuit. Archontic reality

wants to be taken seriously because that is its power-source

and we should deny it that power. Someone abusing

another because of race, religion or gender is an absurdity.

We give it power by responding with anger, resentment and

by being upset. We delete its power by laughing at its

ludicrousness. People have been mass-abusing me for

nearly 30 years all over the world and I find it hilarious. I

don’t know how I keep my underpants dry with some of

them. You are your life and your life is you. A victim you, is a

victim life. A little me you, is a little me life. An Infinite you,

is an Infinite life. This is, to quote Einstein, not philosophy,

but physics. I have sympathy for those who have unpleasant

experiences, but surely the most effective response is to

understand why people experience things that others don’t.

Experience is not random as we are led to believe and if we

can grasp why something happens to one but not the other

we take back even more power over our lives. Sometimes

we are subconsciously guided into what we think is a bad

experience to strengthen the conscious mind and show us

something about ourselves and reality. I wouldn’t change

any of my bad experiences because although they weren’t

nice in the moment they gave me priceless gifts that have

played an essential role in what has followed. The need

many have to be a victim is a subconscious technique they

use to avoid taking responsibility for their own life and

experience. Taking responsibility is another garlic and

vampire relationship that absolutely must stop if humanity

is to be free of its perceptual enslavement. Don’t take

responsibility – blame someone or something else for what

is happening. Externalise responsibility for an internal

creation and in doing so hand over your power to change

what you yourself created. Taking responsibility is to

recognise your creative power. To point the finger at

someone else or bad luck is to accept that you have no

power over your life – someone else or bad luck does. What

we call bad luck is our energetic state of being pulling the

perceived bad luck out of the field of possibility and

probability. There is no such thing as bad luck only the

perception of it. In the end, the answer is always in the

mirror.

UK television personality Noel Edmonds was widely

attacked by the media for asking if negative thoughts could

cause cancer. This was almost a form of blasphemy because

it suggested, wow, no, surely not, that people could play a

part in the cancer they suffer. A claim that a person’s

mental and emotional state could be involved was too much

for many even though this is clearly true from the statistics

alone linking lifestyle choices to cancer. The virtue signallers

cried: How can you ‘blame’ someone for having cancer?

That’s outrageous and so insensitive. All the garbage you

hear surrounding allegations of insensitivity are typical of

victim perception. It is far more ‘sensitive’ to feel sorry for

someone with cancer than to question the cause and so

pursue a possible cure by disconnecting cause from effect.

Of course so-called negative thoughts and emotions have a

detrimental effect on health because their low and distorted

frequency impacts on the balance of the waveform/electrical

blueprint and this plays though into holographic reality as

imbalances that we call disease – disharmony. Imbalanced

emotions generate distorted electrical and electromagnetic

signals

and

fields

which

scramble

the

body’s

electrical/cellular communication system. The result is

cancer and other disease or disease. It’s real simple once

you vacate the Postage Stamp and these electrical

imbalances can be corrected by emotional balance and

positivity and through bioelectrical technology restoring

electrical communication to what it is supposed to be. This

is how thoughts and emotions cause disease and how they

can ‘mind over matter’ cure it. No electrical or

electromagnetic imbalance means no disease and a

dramatic slowing down of aging because this is caused by

cellular replacement becoming more and more distorted

through

cumulative

breakdowns

in

electrical

communication. What is more positive, for goodness sake,

than for illness including cancer to be caused by especially

emotional and electrical imbalances that we ourselves

create? This personal responsibility is really personal power.

If we can cause something we can stop causing it. If we are

the cause then we are the cure. We have the power. Isn’t

this rather more positive than mere virtue-signalling that

condemns others for seeking to understand something while

yourself contributing nothing except virtue-signalled

‘sensitivity’? This is what happened to Edmonds in a TV

interview with another well-known presenter, Phillip

Schofield, who could virtue-signal for the Universe. I was

accused by a BBC radio chap called Stephen Nolan of being

insensitive to families of those killed on 9/11 by challenging

the official story. Apparently it is more sensitive (virtue

signalling) to accept a tissue of lies that many of the

families have themselves seriously questioned. I did say he

worked for the BBC, right?

There is considerable research to connect negative mental

and emotional states to illness for all the reasons I am

explaining here. I have mentioned the placebo effect in

which patients are cured of something after taking a sugar

pill that they believed was the real one and, in terms of the

subject at hand, it works the other way, too. Studies indicate

that some 25 percent of those told about possible side-

effects of the real drug while taking a sugar pill experienced

those side-effects. These have included fatigue, vomiting,

muscle weakness, colds, ringing in the ears, taste and

memory problems and all caused not by the pill that they

didn’t take, but by a belief that this could happen. Men have

even grown hair with a hair-growth drug they didn’t take.

Those convinced they are going to die actually do die far

more often than those with similar conditions without that

conviction. Women who believe they are susceptible to

heart disease have been found to be four times more likely

to die than those who do not have that belief. Patients who

have been wrongly told they are terminally ill have died

within the doctor’s timeframe only for it then to be

discovered they were not terminally ill at all. A doctor’s

death prediction can often be a death sentence because a

programmed mind is a self-fulfilling prophecy. This is, in its

own way, another version of the victim and little me

mentality. I am a victim of my illness and doctor knows best

because I am only little me and he’s a doctor, a Big Me. If

we observe this process with the world in general the same

is happening and the same transformation technique is

required that involves the reevaluation of self-identity. There

are endless examples of people who have rejected a

doctor’s verdict and lived long past the predicted moment of

demise. I was told by doctors as a 19-year-old that I would

probably be in a wheelchair in my 30s because of my

arthritis. I told them I wouldn’t and they could keep their

pills. I am 65 at the time of writing and I’m still not pushing

the wheels. My perception that it wouldn’t happen stopped

it happening because it can’t happen unless I allow it to by

perceiving the possibility or probability of it happening

consciously or subconsciously.

This is a crucial aspect of how we collectively stop the

Archontic agenda reaching its long-planned conclusion. We

don’t accept that this outcome can happen in the way that I

would not accept that the wheelchair would happen. From

this mind pattern – if we hold it collectively in place – will

come holographic actions and happenings that will stop it.

They may appear to be spannering the works of the agenda

but they will be manifestations of the mindset that this is

not going to happen and we’re not having it. The El-ite want

us to believe that what they seek is inevitable and can’t be

stopped – ‘resistance is futile’ – and that certainly appears

to be the case if you look for five-sense answers to

apparently five-sense problems. But if you view the same

situation from the perspective of our individual and

collective interactions with the quantum field from which

‘physical’ reality emerges then most certainly it can be

stopped because we, yes we, can stop creating it. Our

conscious and subconscious minds are being bombarded

with images and thought patterns to program perception to

either desire the transhumanist society or believe this to be

inevitable and unstoppable. Predictive and pre-emptive

programming is coming from all directions in movies and

television programmes (programs) that portray the very

society they want. This is designed to make us familiar with

it, dilute challenge to such enormous change and make us

believe in its inevitability. Such programming then impacts

on the way we interact with possibility and probability and

collectively humanity creates the very world we have been

programmed to believe is inevitable and unstoppable. All

the five-sense happenings that appear to be transforming

society from human to transhuman are only holographic

expressions of what humans are themselves creating by

losing control of perception. These happenings are the

equivalent of atoms which are only a manifestation of the

processes that transform waveform states into holographic

states. The solidity of atoms appears essential to the



existence of physical reality when atoms have no solidity

and there is no ‘physical’. World events appear essential to

transforming the world when they are only illusory ‘atoms’

expressing the process of transformation. There are sensors

all over the planet constantly measuring changes in Earth’s

magnetic field and there were massive spikes in that field at

the time of 9/11 because of the impact of the global

emotional reaction. Everything we think and feel goes into

that field as a frequency and humanity has been

manipulated hour by hour into negative mental and

emotional states to ensure that we make the field, with

which we constantly interact, a reflection of this low-

frequency negativity. In turn, this field of negativity affects

us in a feedback loop of negativity creates negativity

creates negativity. This cycle must be broken and we can

break it.

Heart

of

the

matter

F igure 6 3 8 : Life is supposed to be fun. The crazier and more

absurd it gets the

more we need to laugh and break the standing wave.

The power of the heart is central to everything with regard

to healing the distortion and reversing the inversion.

Usurping the heart (love, infinite insight) with the brain

(thought) and the belly (emotion) is the distortion and is the

inversion – or at least a reflection of the Archontic distortion

and inversion. I speak not of the heart that beats to

electrical rhythm, but the energetic heart or heart

vortex/chakra that beats – if allowed – to the rhythm of

Infinite Awareness. The two are connected, but the

energetic heart is the governor. Distortions in the heart field

become distortions in the holographic heart and this is why

heart disease is such a human plague. The heart field

suffers such widespread imbalance because it is the prime

target of the Archontic Web in the seen and unseen.

Everyday language says it all. Those that control and

manipulate are heart-less or have hearts of stone while

humans are broken-hearted, open-hearted or have heavy-

hearts, changes of heart or their heart in the right place.

The heart vortex is our connection to Infinite Awareness on

a level that brain and belly are programmed never to reach

(Fig 638). Their daily output of low-frequency thought and

emotion are indeed specifically designed to block such

connection (Figs 639 and 640). Those widely used phrases and so many more are telling us where the point of power

lies and so, too, the foundation of the human plight.

Heartless and hearts of stone refer to Archontic entities

whose heart vortex is closed or in such a state of low-

vibrational density that stone is a perfect description. This is

the heart-devoid psychopath that reflects the extremes of



the Archontic distortion. It is not only the language of words

that points us to the truth, but the language of body. A

movement of the hand to indicate ‘I’m thinking’ is

instinctively directed at the head. But when we say, ‘I

know’, I intuitively know, our hand always seeks out the

heart. Rarely is the hand even placed on the ‘physical’

heart, but on the centre of the chest and the heart vortex

which interpenetrates all levels of being and out to infinity.

When we say, ‘I love’ in a passionate way we put our hands

on the heart and we feel that love through the centre of the

chest or the heart vortex. We feel compassion and empathy

from the same place – my heart aches and my heart goes

out to you. The hijacking of human perception and so

human reality has been achieved primarily by closing the

heart vortex or chakra. Gnostics knew this and the

Apocryphon of John says: ‘And they closed their hearts, and

they hardened themselves through the hardness of the

counterfeit spirit ...’ The head thinks but the heart knows

and ‘they’ don’t want us to know. What does your head say?

What does your heart say? These are questions that will

lead us to oblivion or freedom depending on which we

choose to follow. The late and great American comedian Bill

Hicks,

a

very

awake

man,

said:

F igure 6 3 9 : The Archontic hijack replaced love with fear and we

need to

change it back.



F igure 6 4 0 : Archontic reality.

This is where we are right now, as a whole. No one is left

out of the loop. We are experiencing a reality based on a

thin veneer of lies and illusions. A world where greed is

our god and wisdom is a sin, where division is key and

unity is fantasy, where ego-driven cleverness of the mind

is praised, rather than the intelligence of the heart.

In 1990 amid the explosion of ridicule and abuse I made a

conscious decision that whenever my head and heart were

in conflict I would go with my heart. Intuition would decide

my perceptions and actions and not thought. With most

people, head and heart are at war with each other in the

sense that thought and intellect are working to block

intuitive knowing from impacting on perception and

behaviour. If we are at war with ourselves we will be at war

with each other and humanity is profoundly at war with

itself. This conflict essentially takes the form of heart v

head. Heart doesn’t want to fight but isolated head loves a

punch up. What do you think to do? What do you feel to do?

Use your head. What does your heart say? To and fro, to and

fro and, hey presto, another standing wave. My own

experience is that when you go with your intuitive knowing

it can lead you into some challenging situations especially in

the way that others see you. This must be so when the

heart comes from a completely different perception of

reality to the five-sense left-brain. The heart is not going to

take you where the head would take you, or say and do

what the head would say and do. Those observing while still

in head awareness are going to see you as strange, even

mad or bad. But again, in my own experience there comes a

point where the head realises that when you follow your

heart it may lead to some challenges but it all works out in



the end and not despite the challenges but because of

them. At that moment the war is over, as it has been for me

since way back in the 1990s. Heart and head become one

and work as one unit. Intuitive knowing and mental

processes of thought become synchronised and best mates.

When my intuition feels to do this or say that my head says

‘Okay, let’s go’. This is a freedom that is indescribable. I

have highlighted studies by the American Institute of

HeartMath which concluded that when electromagnetic

connections between heart, brain and central nervous

system are in a state of coherence and balance the person

enters an expanded sense of awareness.

F igure 6 4 1 : Infinite reality.

I have found that to be true and I recommend this state of

being to everyone and everyone can do this. It is only a

choice and a change of perceptual centre (Fig 641). Hate,

fear, anxiety, depression and all these low-frequency

emotional states break the heart-brain-nervous system

electromagnetic coherence and thus hold those people in

low-frequency reality. Some idiots have called me a ‘hate

preacher’ for their own political reasons and personal

agendas but hate is the last thing I do – for my own benefit

as well as society in general. I say what I believe and know

to be true and what I think needs to be highlighted and

debated. A lot of people don’t like that. I do not, however,

say it with hate in my heart (or rather my belly). I don’t hate

anyone and once you open your heart you can’t hate

anyone. The very feeling cannot manifest. You can say

things while holding nothing back and stand vehemently

and unyieldingly for something without delivering such

words and feelings with hate. I don’t hate the Archontic

force or any expressions of it no matter how ‘evil’ it may be.

What we hate we become as what we fight we become. You

don’t fight for peace, you peace for peace. If I hate the

Archontic distortion I become that distortion which is the

very origin of hate as well as fear. Hate is the absence of

love and the distortion is the absence of love or the ability

to feel it. I see everything as one and if I hate others I am

hating myself. I will leave the hate to the ‘anti-haters’ like

Zionist extremists, Islamic extremists, Hindu extremists,

white supremacist extremists and Provisional Progressives.

They should remember, however, that hate closes the heart

and places perception firmly in the head. Look around and

this explains so much. I have written at some length about

progressives and Zionists because of their gathering impact

on human society and freedom, but I don’t hate them or

wish them any harm whatsoever. If they hate me and wish

me harm after reading this book I’ll send them a mirror.

The Empathy Revolution From the heart comes

empathy or ‘the ability to understand and share the feelings

of another’. I don’t recommend taking on feelings of other

people because there is no point in one replicating the

emotional states of another and so doubling the impact. You

can’t anyway. Only the experiencer can truly feel an

emotional state. Everyone else feels it second hand. My

version of empathy is to imagine something of how

someone must feel or will feel rather than take on those

feelings ourselves; and to adjust behaviour in the light of

that understanding of how we do or could negatively affect

others. Sometimes this is justified when we have to stand

up to another’s attempted imposition, but mostly it is not.

The Archontic distortion seeks to delete empathy for its own

ends and so what is required is an Empathy Revolution.

Surely the way to proceed is to do the opposite of what the

distortion needs for continuing and expanding control. It

wants us to hate, so we must love; it wants to fight, so we

must be peaceful; it wants us to fear so we must rise above

fear; it wants us to resent and so we must forgive; it wants

us to lie (including to ourselves) and so we must tell the

truth as we perceive the truth to be; it wants us to feel no

empathy and so we must do so in abundance. I feel

empathy for the Archontic distortion, hybrid El-ite, British

royalty, the Bushes, the Clintons, Obama, Trump, Mad Dog

Mattis, Kissinger, Blair and the tyrants of ISIS and Saudi

Arabia. Imagine being them locked away with their

padlocked hearts and programmed minds, their hatred,

insecurity, fear and bile. What a nightmare to wake up every

morning in that state. How sad and pathetic they are behind

the self-deceit and bombast they employ to hide themselves

from themselves and what must await them when they exit

this reality in their desperately low state of frequency? I

have empathy for them, but this does not mean we should

take their nonsense. Their state of being is their problem to

deal with and should not have to be ours. Empathy and love

may not hate and may not violently respond, but they don’t

take shit either. We must remember that. Love in its true

sense is not fluffy and naï ve. It does what it knows to be

right and part of that is refusing any attempt by others to

impose their will individually or collectively. Don’t mess with

love in its Infinite sense. It is not to be messed with because

it doesn’t take no for an answer when no is the wrong

answer. System-servers do what they do to people in war,

violence, oppression, finance, politics, science, medicine,

media, manipulation and control because they have no

capacity for empathy. If they had they wouldn’t do what

they do. There would be no war, financial deprivation,

homelessness, hunger, tyranny, suppression or ‘honour

killings’. There would be no battles for supremacy by

political parties or religions. Empathy and love couldn’t go

there. Humanity in general does have the potential for

empathy and we must use it.

This has a practical as well as a philosophical basis. If you

have empathy with children and the impact on their minds

of smart technology and violent videogames you won’t buy

them. Empathy and love does not always do what others

want but what it knows to be right from an expanded

perspective. If you have empathy with the consequences for

humanity of where the El-ite want to take us you will refuse

to contribute in every way you can to this human

enslavement and that includes law enforcement, the human

version of which is only a temporary transition to Robocop

anyway. If those in uniform want to make a difference they

had better do it now while they still can. We are dealing with

an inversion and so it is hardly brain science to see what we

need to do – the opposite of what it wants us to do. It wants

and needs to drive us apart and so we must come together.

It must have fault-lines of division and so we must remove

them. This takes all sides, not one. All faiths, religions and

beliefs must stop seeking to achieve preeminence or force

their beliefs on others especially children. The arrogance of

such ambition knows no limits or bounds. Put the fault-lines

and their related censorship aside out of respect for the

rights of all to believe what they choose to believe, live as

they choose to live, think what they choose to think and

know as they choose to know, so long as they don’t impose

that on anyone else. The walls that enslave us are those

that we build for ourselves and so we have the power to

take them down (Fig 642). I have no problem with what

people believe and do. I have a problem with the

enforcement of this on others. I am not saying it is easy to

look honestly in the mirror and assess how we each

contribute mentally, emotionally and in daily acts at home,



work and beyond to speed the momentum of Archontic

control. But we must do it if we really want this to end. Do

we want to leave this reality proud that we made every

effort to change hate into love, war into peace and

ignorance into wisdom? Or do we want to slink away wishing

we had not run for cover every time we needed to act in

support of the greater good? Martin Luther King said:

F igure 6 4 2 : We built them and we can take them away.

You may be 38 years old, as I happen to be. And one day,

some great opportunity stands before you and calls you to

stand up for some great principle, some great issue, some

great cause. And you refuse to do it because you are

afraid ... You refuse to do it because you want to live

longer ... You’re afraid that you will lose your job, or you

are afraid that you will be criticised or that you will lose

your popularity, or you’re afraid that somebody will stab

you, or shoot at you or bomb your house; so you refuse to

take the stand.

Well, you may go on and live until you are 90, but you’re

just as dead at 38 as you would be at 90. And the

cessation of breathing in your life is but the belated

announcement of an earlier death of the spirit.

Humanity has to stop running because as Neo was told in

The Matrix: ‘... you have been down there, Neo. You know

that road. You know exactly where it ends and I know that’s

not where you want to be.’ We cannot stop where that road

is leading if we continue to walk it. I will get a lot of abuse

for what I have written in this book – I will be called racist,

transphobic and so much else and I could have avoided all

that by avoiding information that needs to be exposed for

the good of humanity as a whole and avoiding questions

that urgently need to be asked. But what would be the

point? We are either here to do what is necessary to

dismantle the control system or we aren’t. And if we are

then we must do everything we can to do that and not run

away from situations for our own benefit. Anyone reading

this book from cover to cover will see that I don’t have a

racist cell in my body and I celebrate diversity in all things

to celebrate the Infinite Possibility that we are. The abusers

will not, however, read the whole book, but pick out sections

that relate to their own prejudice and condemn them out of

context. This was, and is, always the way. But so be it –

those with ears to hear and eyes to see will not be

influenced by such manipulated garbage. Bring it on, I say,

and let’s take the debate out of the fringes and into the

public arena. I will not be intimidated into silence by anyone

and they better know that before they waste their ‘time’. My

Spirit is not for sale, will not be bullied and will never

diminish. Indeed, it will go on expanding in power and

strength. We must insist on the right to speak our truth and

never stop speaking that truth no matter what the scale of

manufactured opposition. No more fear; no more running

away; no more hiding from the Infinite Totality of who and

what we are.

A new you Give the following a try for the next two

months and see what changes. Hold the perception that you

are not your name, race, religion, life-story, class, job or

income bracket, but a point of attention within Infinite

Awareness having those experiences. Hold the perception

that you are not your body and what you see in the mirror,

but pure awareness, a state of being aware, experiencing

this reality through what you see in the mirror (in truth see

only in your mind). Hold the perception that everyone else

that you see, every animal, tree, breath of air and drop of

water is also Infinite Awareness. They are part of you and

you are part of them. They are you and you are them. You

are not part of the world – you are the world (Fig 643). I

don’t mean that you float through life ignoring the fact that

your experience has a body and a name, but to always be

consciously aware that they are only temporary vehicles

and labels and not you. Interact with people in your

everyday life from the perspective that they are you and

you are them. When responses and decisions are required

then instead of reacting with Phantom Self-perception ask:

What would Infinite Awareness do? What does my heart

say? Go with that and see where it leads. You will now be

interacting with possibility and probability within a far more

expanded band of potential and so your life must change.

The longer you do this and integrate the new sense of ‘I’ the

more powerful that change will be (Figs 644 and 645). I emphasise again that this does not mean that you take crap

from people. It means that you refuse to take it and more

importantly refuse to manifest it by interacting with

potentiality at levels where crap doesn’t happen unless it

really needs to; and when it does it has a diminished effect

on you. Ridicule and abuse that is thrown at me goes

straight through without touching the sides like radio

stations at different points on the dial. The abusers might

one day realise this and stop wasting their lives trying to

upset me. They won’t and can’t unless I let them. You’re

upset? Well, choose not to be. You say that guy verbally

abusing you is an idiot? Yes. Then why does it matter what





an idiot thinks of you or says about you? Snowflakes and

‘minorities’, please consider. I repeat: Being called mad – or

anything else – by an idiot is a compliment.

F igure 6 4 3 : Little Me again.

F igure 6 4 4 : How we got into this mess ...



© www.neilhague.com

F igure 6 4 5 : ... How we get out of this mess.

© www.neilhague.com

We give abusers and racist bigots power they don’t

deserve by being upset by them. If we weren’t upset or

triggered into anger and violence their power and impact

would be neutered because a standing wave cannot

manifest without two sides. It is like clapping with one hand.

You can’t. A conspiracy researcher emailed me to say that

the way someone was acting was harming my reputation. I

had a good laugh at that. What a mind prison this is –

‘reputation’ or ‘the beliefs and opinions that are generally

held about someone or something’. Once you care about

your ‘reputation’ you are giving your power away to those

who will hold those beliefs and opinions. This means that

you will act not in line with what you believe to be right, but

always mould and suppress your behaviour on the basis of

how it will be viewed in terms of your ‘reputation’. You are

not living your life any longer but what others think it should

be. You have handed your power to those others for as long

as you care about ‘reputation’ instead of doing what you

believe to be right irrespective of what others think. My

‘reputation’ is the beholder’s problem, not mine. I have no

concern for how others see me. What I do and the

motivation behind that is what matters to me. Everything is

by comparison irrelevant. Go down the ‘reputation’ route

and your uniqueness is dead in the water. Reputation

requires conforming to the beliefs and perceptions of others

so they will think well of you. What is that ever going to

change when it is just another feedback loop? In terms of

Internet trolls, the delete button is your best friend or don’t

even bother reading what they say because it doesn’t

matter unless you make it so. Anyone who takes to the

Internet with the daily intent of spewing abuse and hurting

people is to be pitied not feared or met with anger and

resentment. The Archontic psychopathic distortion has their

mind in its lair and I wish them all the best in wriggling free.

I would just point out that seeking to hurt and upset people

is not the way to do it. Another question we might ask:

Would Infinite Awareness case less what one aspect of itself

said about another? No, it would recognise that not all

aspects of itself are always at the same level of awareness

and so such things must happen, but we don’t need to be

upset by that. Our mental and emotional wellbeing is not

decided by what happens but how we respond and are

affected by what happens. The great news is that we all

have the power to decide that.

Another effect of this new self-identity, if my own

experience is anything to go by, is that you realise how little

actually matters compared with the perceptions of Phantom

Self. I have dealt with how people are upset by the

behaviour of others towards them, but there is so much

more that we think is important and winds us up

emotionally that doesn’t deserve such a response. My

football team lost! And? Did anyone die? Was a child

abused? Did a war start? No, one group of people kicked a

ball of air into a net or ran it over a line in the US more

times than another group of people. Er, that’s it. This is

going to send us into a frenzy of anger and emotion? I am

not belittling sport or those who like it – I do – but just

putting the whole thing into perspective. Why does it matter

if children are a few minutes late for school or go on holiday

in term-time because that’s when their parents can afford

it? Did anyone die? Was a child abused? Did a war start? No,

a kid woke up a bit late and another had a great time with

their family full of laughter, happiness and joy. What does it

matter that someone has a different opinion to us? Did

anyone die? Was a child abused? Did a war start? What

would Infinite Awareness say when faced with all this? Give

the children a detention, fine the parents and ban the

speaker? No, it would laugh and shake its head at such

irrelevant nonsense. It is worth asking ourselves when our

emotions start to stir – does this situation really matter? Will

it still matter in our perception of tomorrow or next week? If

the answer is no, why should it matter now? Some things do

matter, at least in this reality, like happenings I have

described in this book that maintain humanity in a state of

servitude; but ask that question of most things we find

emotionally ‘triggering’ and they don’t matter at all. In fact,

things that don’t matter often obscure those that do. If

people had the same passion and concern for world events

and the treatment of children that they do for their football

team a lot of things would be different by now or would

never have occurred.

Forest and twigs Self-identity with Infinite Awareness

and not Phantom Self involves a massive expansion of

perception from twigs to forest. It is not that twigs or detail

doesn’t matter, but that we see how everything fits together

to form an interconnected whole. Without the perspective of

the forest the twigs can never be seen in context. Forest

perception means asking the Big Questions – who are we?

Where are we? What is reality? Truth Vibrations that I

highlighted earlier are a frequency/information change that

is prompting ever more people to ask those questions as

Archontic density is challenged and frequencies rise for

those that are open to them. I have seen this happening all

over the world at a quickening pace. Truth Vibrations are

bringing to the surface all that has been hidden – as I was

told they would in 1990 – including the answers to those

questions. So much is going to be known and understood as

this process continues and Truth Vibrations impact with

increasing power on human perception. Great discoveries

are going to be made to support what I have said in this

book and we are going to see so obviously in human

behaviour those who are awakening to their true self and

those sinking deeper into Archontic illusion. Truth Vibrations

can only help those who choose to help themselves. The

transformation of self-identity and perception means to see

the twigs in the context of the forest where everything looks

so different. Twig perception says I am British, I am French, I

am American, I am Christian, I am Muslim, I am Jewish, I am

Hindu, I am black, I am white, I am man, I am woman, I am

transgender, I am LGBTTQQFAGPBDSMLHITN. Forest

perception sees that these are only labels to describe

experience and beyond the illusion there is no British,

French, American, Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, black,

white,

man,

woman,

transgender

or

LGBTTQQFAGPBDSMLHITN. There is only Infinite Awareness

experiencing itself – ourself. We have political wars, race

wars and gender wars because humanity has been

manipulated to forget this. Infinite Self doesn’t war –

Phantom Self does.

Forest and twig realties have endless other implications

for what we will and won’t do, what we can and cannot see.

A Phantom Self working in Silicon Valley producing or

promoting transhumanist technology will think he or she has

got a good, well-paid job, nice house and all that goes with

it. Infinite Self says what the hell am I doing contributing to

the total mental and emotional enslavement of myself, my

children, grandchildren and the rest of humanity? I can’t do

this – I mustn’t do this. The same duel perspectives apply to

law enforcement, those who work at Google and Facebook,

AI technologists, censors of every kind, journalists,

intelligence operatives, the military, politicians and assets of

The System in general which means enormous numbers of

people worldwide. If you don’t like the way the world is

going then do everything you can to stop contributing to

what you don’t like, and that includes celebrities in movies

and entertainment that have potentially vast audiences but

who stay silent on all these issues even though they can see

something of what is happening. What matters more to

them – the very survival of humankind or keeping their

masters in Hollywood sweet? Transformation of self-identity

will bring something else – an essential component to

ending this insanity: wisdom. The world may appear on one

level to be clever but it is not wise. I have been saying all

these years: Cleverness without wisdom is the most

destructive force on earth. It is clever to build a nuclear

bomb but it is not wise to do so, still less to use it. Wisdom

comes from expanding self-identity which means expanding

awareness into those realms of Infinite Awareness where

wisdom can be found. Wisdom is what will transform the

world and the Hidden Hand knows that. This is why they

have sought to develop cleverness (left-brain intellect) at

the expense of the heart (wisdom). The mystic Osho said:

No society wants you to become wise: it is against the

investment of all societies. If people are wise they cannot be

exploited. If they are intelligent they cannot be subjugated,

they cannot be forced into a mechanical life, to live like

robots. They will assert their individuality. They will have the

fragrance of rebellion around them. They will like to live in



freedom. Freedom comes with wisdom, intrinsically. They

are inseparable, and no society wants people to be free.

The communist society, the fascist society, the capitalist

society, the Hindu, the Mohammedan, the Christian – no

society – would like people to use their own intelligence

because the moment they start using their intelligence

they

become

dangerous

–

dangerous

to

the

Establishment, dangerous to the people who are in power,

dangerous to the ‘haves’; dangerous to all kinds of

oppression, exploitation, suppression; dangerous to the

churches, dangerous to the states, dangerous to the

nations. In fact, a wise man is afire, alive, aflame. But he

cannot sell his life, he cannot serve them. He would like

rather to die than to be enslaved.

F igure 6 4 6 : Come on gang, let’s give it a try.

You may note that I have taken 17 chapters to explain the

problem, but only one to deal with the answer. This is not a

contradiction or imbalance, but symbolic of a sparkling

truth. In those 17 chapters were endless answers that come

from understanding the problem but all those answers are

expressions of one answer that has been outlined in this

final chapter now reaching its close. Humanity is where it is

because we have forgotten who we are. We have given our

minds away to illusion and fake rulers whose power comes

only from the power we hand to them. If the Archontic

Reptilian force could walk in and take over then they would

have by now. They have a frequency limitation which means

that they can only control us when human minds and

perceptions are held-fast in the frequency band that they

can manipulate. A common theme of ancient and modern

accounts of Archontic entities is that they are terrified of

humans waking up to our true nature and power because

they know their game would then be over. The solution,

therefore, is to withdraw from that band by withdrawing

from our perception of Phantom Self and entering the high-

frequency state of Infinite Self. I am Ethel, John, Mohammed

or Zohar becomes I am All That Is And Ever Can Be (Fig

646). The problem may seem so complex, but the answer is

so simple. Make that transition of self-identity and

everything begins to change in your own life and collectively

in what we call the world as we manifest a different reality

from possibility and probability.

If we don’t then humanity is doomed. If we do our

enslavement is over. Hard choice, isn’t it?





Postscript The speed of developments in the

Hidden Hand agenda can be seen in events that have

happened even in the few weeks since this book went into

production which support what you have read in the text.

Attempts to create civil war – not least in the United States –

can be seen in the violence by the El-lite-funded and

supported Antifa targeting peaceful protests that demand

freedom of speech while hiding behind the façade of ‘anti-

hate’ and ‘fighting fascism’ (Fig 1). They scream hate from

hate-filled faces while claiming to be ‘anti-hate’ (Fig 2). Yes,

there are neo-Nazis and white supremacists as there are

neo-Nazi black and brown supremacists and neo-Nazi

‘antifascists’ like Antifa; but that is not what this is all about.

Antifa are just another expression of the ‘Nihilists’ said to

have been predicted by Albert Pike in 1871 (see also ISIS)

which would be unleashed in the run up to World War III. The

real target of the Antifa deception is freedom of opinion and

expression which the antifascist fascists and their

‘progressive’ sheep-like, childlike mobs are set on deleting

on behalf of their Archontic masters (which all but a few of



them don’t even know exist). They are so bewildered that

they are ‘attacking the system’ by serving its interests while

the ‘one percent’ they claim to so despise cheer them on in

collective contempt at their sheer stupidity. The ‘Antifa’

‘Left’ and the extreme ‘Right’ are mirrors of each other

standing on the same ground and sharing the same moronic

mentality while claiming to be opposites. They are

opposames (Fig 3). The simple and blatant technique is to

label anyone defending freedom of speech as a Nazi and so

demonise the very concept of freedom of speech itself.

Violence at Charlottesville, Virginia, between Antifa and



‘neo-Nazis’ in August 2017 clearly came from both sides but

Donald Trump was lambasted by the media for saying so.

How dare he say that neo-Nazis and ‘anti-Nazi’ neo-Nazis

were both responsible? The virtue-signalling British Prime

Minister Theresa May said that you cannot compare

antifascists with fascists, but of course you can when they

both behave fascistically. This is not what the script

demanded, however, and so facts and the patently obvious

have no meaning. Those demanding freedom of speech

must be the villains, not those seeking to destroy it, even

though confidential Homeland Security and FBI documents

are reported to label Antifa as domestic terrorists.

F igure 1 : ‘Antifascist’? Yeah, right, sure they are.



F igure 2 : Self-delusion in need of self-awareness.

F igure 3 : Mirror images claiming to be different.

The conflict at Charlottesville was over plans to remove a

statue of Confederate general Robert E. Lee who fought for

the slavery-supporting south in the American Civil War. This

led to demands for statues of historical figures to be

removed across America and this is all connected to the

deletion of culture and history (which can then be rewritten)

that includes the destruction of ancient artefacts, temples,

mosques and cities by the United States and ISIS in Syria

and Iraq. George Orwell said: ‘Who controls the past

controls the future. Who controls the present controls the

past.’ We are looking at another manifestation of the

memory hole. History is history – the good and the bad –

and to erase history is not to learn from it. The Zionist

Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) took time out from

stashing its millions in offshore accounts (while spending

just $61,000 on legal services in 2015) to helpfully produce

a map of where ‘unacceptable’ statues can be found. It has

urged people to demand that all Confederate monuments

be taken down and even provided a stock letter to be sent

to local media in support of the campaign. All you have to

do is add your location and local details. These people are

so helpful and not at all part of a coordinated and centrally-

directed campaign in which they are only a single and

immensely well-funded strand. This SPLC ‘monument map’

was a companion guide to its ‘hate map’ which names

nearly a thousand ‘hate groups’ in the United States, many

of which are clearly not. With shocking hypocrisy the SPLC

and its stablemate, the Anti-Defamation League, spend their

time and their millions (they are ‘non-profit’!) seeking to

spread hatred of their targets. The media widely quote the

claims of these Zionist-controlled censor groups as if they

are credible when they are simply assets of a Web

committed to destroying freedom of expression and the

right to an opinion. The SPLC, which brands a number of

Christian-based organisations ‘hate groups’ because of

alleged ‘hateful language and policies regarding the LGBT

community’, was given a million dollars by those virtue-

signallers extraordinaire, actor George Clooney and his wife.

Apple pledged two million dollars to the SPLC and the Anti-

Defamation League while those other pillars of compassion,

equality and freedom, JPMorgan Chase and James Murdoch,

son of Rupert, donated millions to the same ‘anti-hate’ hate

organisations. It wasn’t coordinated or anything and that

would be an outrageous thing to say about such bastions of

liberal values. I guess that offshore banks will welcome the

SPLC’s latest ‘good fortune’. The SPLC doesn’t seem to like

me which always gives me great comfort because the

thought of it being otherwise I can hardly bear to

contemplate. All opinion that is deemed not acceptable to

the book-burning fascism of political correctness is now

considered ‘hate’ as a matter of course to justify,

increasingly through violence, its censorship.

The usual suspects, like the Rothschild-created B’nai B’rith

(‘Sons of the Covenant’), which spawned the hate group, the

Anti-Defamation League, tried and failed to have my events

cancelled in Canada in late August 2017 in its hysterical

campaign worldwide to dictate what people can and cannot

say and hear. The event in Toronto survived because the

venue was owned by a Christian organisation and

Vancouver went ahead according to reports only because

the Mayor of Vancouver, Gregor Robertson, refused to bow

to pressure when those running the city-owned theatre

wanted to cancel in the wake of the ramblings and bleatings

of professional victims and censors known as B’nai B’rith.

Robertson showed great integrity, respect for freedom of

speech and not a little courage given how ruthless and

unforgiving these censor-groups are. I guess the efforts by a

tiny few to silence me will increase with the publication of

this book through the intimidation of the jelly-spined who

have contempt for freedom and their own self-respect. But

fuck ‘em. Upward and onward. On that note, by the way, the

following should be added to the List of Shame and Roll Call

of the Gutless who have cancelled my events on the say-so

of often tiny Zionist hate groups: St Andrews Hall, Norwich;

Central Hall, Southampton; the Komedia venue in Bath (so-

named no doubt because it’s a joke); the Imperial War

Museum, Manchester; and the Queen Elizabeth Theatre in

Toronto which gave us a lame excuse that we didn’t believe

only for B’nai B’rith to say in a hate-Icke statement to the

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) that the reason

was their complaint. The Manchester Imperial War Museum,

which no doubt hails the sacrifice of millions to protect

freedom from the book-burning Nazis, would never see the

grotesque irony and contempt for what those soldiers fought

for by cancelling my book-launch event there on the lies of

those acting like the very same Nazis. In a bizarre

development I was, in effect, blamed by an article in The

Times of Israel for an Internet posting by Yair Netanyahu,

son of the Israeli prime minister, which featured George

Soros, an ‘alien reptile’, a stereotypical Jewish figure in a

cloak and former Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak (Fig 4). It

was a very strange posting and apparently inspired by my



work as implied in the report. I am one guy living in a little

flat on the Isle of Wight and strictly a member of no

organisation – but suddenly I am a global threat?? If I am so

crazy, what could be the problem? Exposing the truth about

world events is, of course, the problem and everything else

is an effort to demonise me and discredit my information.

Mind you, they have been trying for nearly 30 years and the

numbers looking at my work worldwide just go on soaring.

Keep trying chaps if you want to waste your time, but the

world is waking up. Just for the record yet again: Am I using

‘Reptilians’ as a metaphor for ‘Jews’? ABSOLUTELY NOT.

When I say Reptilians I mean REPTILIANS. Sorry to

disappoint those desperate to censor me, but it is the



simple truth.

F igure 4 : The bizarre meme posted by Benjamin Netanyahu’s son.

Censorship of the information that I research and circulate

is coming from all angles as Zionist-owned Google/YouTube,

Facebook and other Internet corporations exploit their own

near-monopolies to block the public from seeing what the

Web they represent doesn’t want people to see. They know

they are not conspiracy ‘theories’ because the inner cores of

these corporations are part of the conspiracy. Even videos

documenting US airstrikes have been blocked by YouTube as

the censorship moves incessantly into the mainstream. The



next stage will be for Google/YouTube, Facebook, Amazon

and their like to dominate television output, too. Anyone

who genuinely believes in the protection of freedom and the

rolling back of its systematic destruction must support the

breaking up of these monopolies and laws to make their

politically-motivated

algorithmic

and

direct

human

censorship illegal (Fig 5). Those who attack people for what

they say even when it can be factually supported should

also realise – including the mainstream media – that it may

be me today but it will be them tomorrow as the squeeze on

freedom goes on until only Orwell’s nightmare remains (Fig

6).

F igure 5 : If this doesn’t happen then goodbye freedom.

F igure 6 : A definition of fascism.

The truth about the secret government/Deep State

continues to emerge. I watched a video presentation by

Kevin Shipp, a former CIA officer and anti-terrorism expert,

which confirmed the connections between the CIA and

supposedly ‘independent’ corporations such as Lockheed

Martin, General Dynamics, Raytheon, Boeing and US

‘management consulting firm’ Booz Allen Hamilton where

surveillance whistleblower Edward Snowden once worked.

Shipp described the connections between these arms

manufacturing

and

surveillance

companies,

the

Congressional

Arms

Services

Committee,

extremist

warmonger, Senator John McCain, and former FBI director

James Comey who Shipp said was paid millions a year by

Lockheed Martin, the Pentagon’s biggest ‘defence’ (attack)

contractor. He said that Lockheed Martin also gave millions

to the notorious Clinton Foundation while Comey was the

FBI chief who dropped an investigation into the staggering

corruption of Hillary Clinton. Another FBI director, Robert

Mueller, who was appointed a week before 9/11, was

selected to ‘investigate’ alleged Russian connections to

Trump and his associates which are designed to block any

chance of closer US-Russia relations. Shipp said that the CIA

operates as a law unto itself and controls all of the

corporations I have mentioned here and so many more. I

also contend that the same applies (in league with DARPA)

to Google, Facebook and other Internet giants dictating

what the public can and cannot see. Lockheed Martin and

the rest of the mass-murder ‘defence’ network have enjoyed





boom times since the Zionist-created Neocon organisations

like the Project for the New American Century published

their list of target countries. As I write this postscript North

Korea is apparently the main threat to the world (see Iraq,

Libya, Syria, Iran, etc., etc., and whoever they target next).

North Korea was on the Neocon list for regime change in

September 2000 and the target countries continue to be

demonised and ticked off. On that note, watch for the

concerted demonisation of Lebanon at some point because

that will most certainly come. The prime reason for the

focus on North Korea is to open the door to the real goal –

China. In fact, both China and Russia. North Korea has a big

border with China and a small one with Russia (Fig 7). We

are watching a script masquerading as random events.

F igure 7 : The real reason for the targeting of North Korea.

F igure 8 : Whipping up and directing hurricanes is child’s play with

today’s Deep State technology.

High-pitched screams were emitting from the global

warming cult in the wake of the record-breaking and

catastrophic hurricanes that devastated large areas of

Texas, especially the city of Houston, Louisiana and across

Florida and the Caribbean. We were told this was proof of

human-caused climate change when it was nothing of the

kind. Jennifer Lawrence, Hunger Games actress and classic

Hollywood progressive, appeared to connect the hurricanes

to the election of Donald Trump and his public scepticism

about the climate change narrative. Lawrence said of the

hurricanes: ‘It’s hard not to feel Mother Nature’s rage and

wrath.’ It is harder for me not to look at the now highly

advanced and sophisticated weather wars technology

discussed by Dr Richard Day in 1969 with the capability to

whip up hurricanes to record wind speeds and accurately

direct them at will to a target. Manipulation of surrounding

pressure systems can hold the storms stationary for long

enough to unleash mega-rain in one area – as we saw with

the record-breaking deluge from Hurricane Harvey when an

estimated 25 trillion gallons of water fell in Texas and

Louisiana (Fig 8). The question is as always – who benefits?

The answer is anyone who wants chaos, suffering, upheaval,

homelessness, despair, mass financial loss and knock-on

consequences, and to promote a fear and belief in human-

caused ‘climate change’, once known as ‘global warming’. I

recommend a visit to Geoengineeringwatch.org and articles/videos such as ‘Engineered Climate Cataclysm:

Hurricane Harvey’ and ‘Hurricane Irma Manipulation:

Objectives and Agendas’. Another site to research is

Weatherwar101.com. Those who also rightly connect solar flares to hurricanes (and earthquakes), like Piers Corbyn at

Weatheraction.com, have pointed out that Hurricane Irma and associated storms happened at a time of major solar

flare activity.

Some other updates:

• The transgender agenda is going into overdrive with

schools banning skirts, gender-neutral shoes made for

children, stores no longer having boys and girls labels on

clothing and questions being asked about whether there is

a need to assign gender at birth. The head teacher of a

school banning skirts spoke of the increase in the

numbers questioning their gender without even

considering the question of why such numbers are

soaring. It’s all being done by long-planned design and Dr

Richard Day must be laughing to himself with undisguised

glee given that he told those paediatricians in 1969 that

boys and girls were going to be made the same. But, don’t

worry – there’s no conspiracy ... Zzzzzzzzz.

• A major global study discovered widespread microscopic

plastic in drinking water and the air worldwide – the very

plastic that destroys fertility, changes gender, adds to the

synthetic nature of the body and is potentially

catastrophic for health.

• DARPA is funding a project by Lockheed Martin (of

course) to create a planetary web of surveillance called ...

SPIDER. The Segmented Planar Imaging Detector for

Electro-optical

Reconnaissance

(SPIDER)

employs

miniaturised technology described as ‘basically a

telescope on a microchip’.

• A two-year study led by Dr J. Leroy Hulsey, Chair of the

Civil and Environmental Engineering Department,

University of Alaska Fairbanks, concluded that the official

explanation of the collapse of World Trade Center Building

7 (which wasn’t hit by a plane) is not true. The interim

report said the building did not collapse because of fire as

the official fairy tale claims. No, it was a controlled

demolition as part of the 9/11 Problem-Reaction-Solution

to justify what has followed.

• The number of ‘no-go areas’ in Sweden has increased

yet again and more police have been attacked by

migrants including one stabbed in the neck. A pro-

immigration group reported that Sweden was ‘falling out

of love’ with migrants. As I’ve said, if the criminality of the

few is not addressed then all migrants are judged by their

actions.

• Sarah Champion was pressured to resign as Shadow

Women’s Minister by the UK opposition Labour Party

headed by the utter fraud that is Jeremy Corbyn. Her

crime was to point out that hundreds of Pakistani men are

involved in gangs abusing overwhelmingly white women

and girls. If truth and facts are considered bad for the

ballot box they become meaningless – as do the girls and

women being abused.

• Google, YouTube and Facebook personnel worked with

the Trump election campaign out of San Antonio, Texas, on

an Internet-based operation called Project Alamo which is

said to have been fundamental to him winning the

presidency.

• A petition on a White House website won massive

support for its demand that George Soros be declared a

terrorist and his assets seized. It won’t get anywhere, but

it shows how many more people are seeing through the

Soros smoke and mirrors.

• The dark-suit bureaucratic tyranny of the European

Union continues to do everything possible to block Brexit

and the will of the British people. Unelected EU dictators

are supported in their war on democracy by ‘progressives’

and, once again, the ‘socialist’ bullshitter, Jeremy Corbyn,

and war criminal Tony Blair whose obsession with stopping

Brexit says everything given that he is a wholly-owned

asset of the Web. The more this arrogant, Web-controlled,

cross-party, cross-border political class try to stop Brexit

the more determined the British people must be to ensure

that it happens.

• EU Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker-Drunker

has demanded a single president for the entire EU, an EU

finance minister with new powers to intervene in the

financial affairs of countries with every member state

adopting the euro, an EU army and vastly more power

across the board centralised in Brussels – exactly what I

have said for decades the plan has been all along.

• Amazon slashed prices when it took over the Whole

Foods chain on its way to doing to independent health and

organic food stores what it has done to independent book

stores and publishers. Amazon is another company that

must have its gathering monopolies urgently addressed

and dismantled.

• Uber, the Silicon Valley global taxi company, had its

licence revoked in London over passenger safety issues

and for not being a ‘fit and proper’ operation. It

immediately launched an appeal. Uber has a much bigger

global agenda than would at first appear which is why it

can go on expanding with massive money-no-object

losses – the same as Internet giants while they were

securing their near-monopolies. Airbnb, the Uber-type

Silicon Valley global accommodation company, is a similar

story in my opinion.

• Students at the University of Mississippi were left crying,

traumatised and distraught by the ‘racist act’ of someone

leaving a banana skin in a tree. It turned out that a

student had left it there when he couldn’t find a trash bin.

• Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu claimed that a

‘2000-year-old half-shekel coin’ found by a young girl in an

illegal Israeli settlement proved their historical right to the

land of Palestine. It turned out to be a replica souvenir for

tourists commonly made at the Israel Museum. Oops, but

how apt given the nonsense of the rest of the made-up

‘history’.

And finally ... I was approached by The Hollywood

Reporter, an entertainment industry trade publication based

in Los Angeles, to comment on the financial success of the

fake news websites Yournewswire/Newspunch.com which are doing so much damage to the credibility of the

alternative media by making up stories that fact-checker

websites delight in so easily debunking. My reference was

less than glowing as you would expect. Newspunch.com was

at it again in August 2017 when it reported that Ronald

Bernard,

the

Dutch

‘entrepreneur

and

financial

whistleblower’ I mentioned in this book, had been found

dead in Florida after calling police to say his life was in

danger. The made-up story was soon clickbaiting its way

across the Internet shared by those who think they have

‘woken up’, but haven’t. A few moments of checking

revealed that the story – yes, by the nonexistent ‘Baxter

Dmitry’ – was actually a manipulated rewrite of a

mainstream report about a different man called Ronald

Bernard Fernandez who had been found dead in Sebring,

Florida after getting lost on a nature walk. Fernandez had

not rung the police to say his life was in danger, but to say

he was lost. The disrespect for the real Ronald Bernard is

stunning, although par for the course. Disrespect and



contempt for readers and the genuine alternative media

would require the Richter scale to be accurately measured.

One other point that I find strange is why Facebook appears

to be protecting Yournewswire/Newspunch.com and ‘editor-in-chief’

Sean Adl-Tabatabai from criticism while at the same

time using the excuse of ‘fake news’ to suppress and censor

genuine alternative media sites. How does Facebook square

that? I was banned from Facebook for three days for posting

an article from an external site simply pointing out that

Newspunch is Yournewswire under another name. Others

have been banned for a month at a time for criticism of Adl-

Tabatabai and his website operations. How come? And who

benefits?

One final, final thought ... always keep your eyes on

Georgie boy (Fig 9).





F igure 9 : George Soros – his networks are enormous and

‘progressives’ love his

money.

F or constant daily updates on world events in their

true context go to Davidicke.com. There is also a

weekly podcast.

Bibliography

Alexander, Dr Eben: Proof of Heaven: A Neurosurgeon’s

Journey into the Afterlife (Piakus, 2012).

Antelman, Rabbi Marvin: To Eliminate the Opiate (Zahavia,

1974).

Attwood, Shaun: American Made (Gadfly Press, 2016).

Bamford, James: Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-

Secret National Security Agency (Anchor Books; Reprint

edition, 2002).

Bellamy, Dr Hans Schindler: Moons, Myths and Men

(University Microfilms International, 1959).

Bergrun, Norman: Ringmakers of Saturn (The Pentland

Press, 1986).

Carr, William James Guy: Satan, Prince of this World (Omni

Publications, 1966 – written in 1959).

Cook, Jonathan: Israel and the Clash of Civilisations: Iraq,

Iran and the Plan to Remake the Middle East (Pluto Press,

2008).

David, Gary A: Mirrors of Orion (independently published,

2014).

Deane, Reverend John Bathurst: Worship of the Serpent

(BiblioBazaar, 2009, first published 1933).

Furedi, Frank: What’s Happened To The University? – A

sociological exploration of its infantilisation (Routledge,

2016).

Greely, Professor Henry: The End of Sex and the Future of

Human Reproduction (Harvard University Press, 2016).

Hall, Manly P: Secret Teachings of All Ages (CreateSpace

Reprint edition, 2011). Huxley, Aldous: Brave New World

(Chatto & Windus, 1932).

Iserbyt, Charlotte: The Deliberate Dumbing Down of

America (Conscience Press; Revised edition 2011).

Jaynes, Julian: The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown

of the Bicameral Mind (Mariner, 1976).

Kinross, Lord Patrick: Ataturk, The Rebirth of a Nation (Quill,

1687).

Knight, Christopher, and Butler, Alan: Who Built the Moon?

(Watkins, 2007).

Lanza, Robert: Biocentrism (Ben Bella, 2010).

Lash, John Lamb: Not In His Image: Gnostic Vision, Sacred

Ecology, and the Future of Belief (Chelsea Green Publishing,

2006).

Lovelock, James: The Revenge of Gaia (Penguin, 2007).

Morjani, Anita: Dying to be Me (Hay House, 2012).

Mutwa, Credo: Song Of The Stars (Barrytown Ltd, 1995).

O’Brien, Cathy: Trance-Formation of America (Reality

Marketing, 1995).

Purucker, G de: Occult Glossary (Theosophical University,

1996).

Sagan, Carl: The Dragons of Eden (Random House, 1977).

Sand, Shlomo: The Invention of the Jewish People (Verso, 14

Jun. 2010).

Scholem, Gershon: The Messianic Idea in Judaism (Schocken

Books, 1994).

Shine, Betty: Mind to Mind: The Secrets of Your Mind Energy

Revealed (Corgi, 1990).

Taplin, Jonathan: Move Fast and Break Things: How

Facebook, Google and Amazon Cornered Culture and

Undermined Democracy (Little Brown, 2017).

Talbott, David: The Saturn Myth (Doubleday, 1980).

Talbott, David and Thornhill, Wallace: Thunderbolts of the

Gods (Mikamar Publishing, 2005).

Talbot, Michael: The Holographic Universe (HarperCollins,

1996).

Taylor, Steve: The Fall: The Insanity of the Ego in Human

History and the Dawning of a New Era (O Books, 2005).

Tegmark, Max: Our Mathematical Universe: My Quest for the

Ultimate Nature of Reality (Penguin, 2015).

Temple, Robert: The Sirius Mystery (Destiny Books, 1998).

Thornhill, Wallace and Talbott, David: The Electric Universe

(Mikamar Publishing, 2007).

Tompkins, William Selected by Extraterrestrials: My life in

the top secret world of UFOs, think-tanks and Nordic

secretaries (CreateSpace, 2015).





Turan, D. Mustafa: The Donmeh Jews (Cairo, 1989).

Ulfkotte, Udo: Journalists for Hire: How the CIA Buys the

News (Next Revelation Press, 2017).

Velikovsky, Immanuel: Worlds in Collision (Paradigma,

2009).

I ndex

A

A bbas, Mahmoud ref1

A bbott, Diane ref1

A BC News ref1

abductions ref1, ref2

A bdulrahman, Rami ref1

A bedi, Ramadan ref1

A bedi, Salman ref1

A byss, ruler of the ref1

A costa, Anthony ref1

A ctivist Post ref1

acupuncture ref1

A dam and Eve ref1, ref2

A dami, Christoph ref1

A dams, Douglas. The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy ref1

A delson, Sheldon ref1

A dl-Tabatabai , Sean ref1, ref2

aeons

Gnosticism ref1, ref2, ref3

Lower Aeons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Upper Aeons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

A fghanistan ref1, ref2

heroin production ref1

invasion ref1

Mujahedeen ref1, ref2

NATO ref1

Operation Cyclone ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3

Soviet Union, invasion by ref1

Taliban ref1

United States ref1, ref2

A frica and A mericas,

suppression of people in ref1

A fzal, Nazir ref1

A genda 2 1 (UN) ref1, ref2, ref3

A genda 2 0 3 0 (UN) ref1, ref2

agricultural land ref1, ref2

A hmed, Mahmood ref1

air, plastics in the ref1

A irbnb ref1

aircraft, pilotless passenger ref1

A l J azeera ref1, ref2, ref3

A lbania ref1

A lcarez, Jose Antonio ref1

A ldrin, Buzz ref1

A leksic, Srdjan ref1

A lexa personal assistant ref1, ref2

A lexander, Eben ref1, ref2

Proof of Heaven ref1

A lexandria, Royal or Great Library in ref1

A lfano, Angelino ref1

algebra ref1

A lghrani, Amel ref1

algorithms

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

employment ref1

journalists, replacement of ref1

media ref1, ref2

new technology as not being new ref1

A lice in Wonderland. Carroll, Lewis ref1

A lice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster. Icke,

David

ref1, ref2

aliens see A rchon visitations; nonhuman entities

all-seeing eye ref1, ref2, ref3

A llah’s Soldiers (television) ref1

A llais, Franck ref1

A llegory of the Cave ref1, ref2

A llen, Rebecca ref1

A llen, Richie ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

A llen, Tanya ref1

The A ll That I s ref1

A lphabet (Google) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

A l-Q aeda ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

alternative comedians ref1

alternative healing ref1, ref2

alternative media ref1, ref2

advertising, withdrawal of ref1

antiSemitism ref1

censorship ref1

Christians ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1

extremist videos ref1

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

five senses ref1

genuine ref1

Google ref1

Iraq, invasion of ref1, ref2

mainstream media ref1, ref2

monetisation conspiracy ref1, ref2

perceptions, controlling ref1

political correctness ref1

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

The Program ref1

rigged systems ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

swamp, draining the ref1

telling people what they want to hear ref1

terrorism ref1

Twitter ref1

YouTube ref1, ref2

alters ref1, ref2

aluminium ref1

A madeu Antonio Stiftung ref1

A manpour, Christiane ref1

A mazon

Alexa personal assistant ref1, ref2

Amazon Go supermarkets ref1

censorship ref1, ref2

credit card debt ref1

Kindle ref1

Kiva systems ref1

market domination ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

media ownership ref1, ref2

quantum computers ref1, ref2

robots ref1

smart fridges ref1

tax ref1

television ref1

Whole Foods chain, takeover of ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1

A merican Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) ref1

A merican I srael Public A ffairs Committee (AIPAC) ref1, ref2

A merican J ewish Committee’s Proj ect I nterchange ref1

A merican Made. Attwood, Shaun ref1

A mnesty I nternational (AI) ref1, ref2

A mrani, Yossi ref1

A n I nconvenient Truth. Gore, Al ref1, ref2

A ncestry.com ref1

A ncient A liens (television) ref1, ref2

A nd the Truth Shall Set Y ou F ree. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

ref5

A nderson, Don L ref1

A ndorno, Roberto ref1

A ndrew, Duke of Y ork (Prince Andrew) ref1, ref2

animals

communication ref1

sacrifice ref1

A nne, Princess ref1

A ntarctica, Draco Reptilian base under ref1

A ntelman, Marvin. To Eliminate the Opiate ref1

A nti-Defamation League (ADL) ref1, ref2, ref3

A ntifa ref1, ref2

class ref1

freedom of opinion ref1

Extreme Right ref1

political correctness ref1

terrorism ref1

United States ref1

antiSemitism ref1

alternative media ref1

Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement ref1, ref2

British politicians, manipulation of ref1

Canada, cancellation of events in ref1, ref2, ref3

cancellation of events ref1, ref2

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Community Security Trust (CST) ref1

definition ref1, ref2, ref3

European Union ref1

freedom of expression ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Germany, cancellation of events in ref1, ref2

hate crime, offence of ref1

Hollywood, control of ref1

Holocaust ref1, ref2

Icke, David Canada, cancellations in ref1, ref2, ref3

cancellation of events ref1, ref2, ref3

false accusations against ref1, ref2, ref3

Germany, cancellations in ref1, ref2

UK, cancellations in ref1, ref2

industry, as ref1

Ireland ref1, ref2, ref3

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Labour Party ref1

mainstream media ref1

Mossad ref1, ref2

multiculturalism and immigration 515= 16, ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

reptilians as Jews ref1

Revisionist Zionism ref1, ref2

Rothschilds ref1, ref2

self-haters ref1

Silicon Valley, monitoring of ref1

tyranny ref1, ref2

United Kingdom, cancellation of events in ref1, ref2

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

A nunna/A nunnaki ref1, ref2

apartheid ref1, ref2

apartness ref1

A pocryphon of J ohn ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

A pollo missions ref1, ref2, ref3

A pollonius Rhodius ref1

A pollyon/A baddon ref1

appear-disappear illusion ref1

A ppel, Heidi ref1

A pple

Anti-Defamation League (ADL) ref1, ref2, ref3

artificial intelligence companies, buying small ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2, ref3

CIA ref1

culture ref1

market domination ref1

office assistant (Siri) ref1, ref2

smart devices, addiction to ref1, ref2

Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) ref1

tax ref1

transhumanism ref1

wearables ref1

Zionism ref1

A q uino, Michael ref1

A rab Spring ref1, ref2, ref3

A ram ref1

A rchon visitations ref1

abductions ref1, ref2

ancient societies ref1

Anunna/Anunnaki ref1

Apollo missions ref1, ref2

appear-disappear illusion ref1

astronauts ref1

buildings, advanced ref1

Demiurge distortion ref1, ref2

Draco Reptilians ref1, ref2, ref3

fake invasions ref1

The Fall ref1, ref2

Fermi Paradox ref1

frequency bands ref1, ref2

genetic manipulation ref1

Gnostics ref1, ref2

Golden Age ref1

Great Flood ref1

Greys ref1, ref2

interbreeding ref1

Lyra constellation ref1

manifestations ref1

names of manipulators and visitors, list of ref1

new psyche religions ref1, ref2

Nordics ref1, ref2

pyramids, building the ref1

reptilian humans ref1

Reptilians ref1

UFOs Nazis, advanced technological knowledge given to ref1

sightings ref1

underground bases ref1

whistleblowing ref1

A rchons ref1, ref2, ref3 see also A rchontic Reptilians; A rchon visitations

artificial intelligence ref1

black cubes ref1

bloodlines ref1

cause and effect, law of ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

Demiurge ref1, ref2

emotional states ref1

encoding ref1

force ref1, ref2, ref3

illusion ref1

intelligence ref1, ref2

killing ref1

numbers ref1

one big program ref1, ref2

reality ref1, ref2

Saturn ref1, ref2, ref3

synthetic humans ref1

Syria ref1

A rchontic Reptilians see also A rchon visitations

artificial intelligence ref1

caverns and caves, in ref1

corporations ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

drones ref1

eating humans ref1

encoding ref1

fear ref1

forest/twigs ref1

freedom of expression ref1

Jews, as code for ref1

killing ref1

mainstream media ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

Moon ref1

new technology as not being new ref1

paedophiles ref1

perceptions, controlling ref1, ref2, ref3

profits ref1

rituals ref1

serpent worship ref1

shapeshifting ref1, ref2

Sirius ref1

software El-ite ref1

Syria ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Zulu legends ref1

A rchontic web see Web and Spider A ristotle ref1, ref2

armed confl ict see war

armed forces ref1

Archontic Intelligence ref1

cloud ref1

DARPA ref1

drones ref1

Dubai police force, robots in ref1

killer robots ref1

laser weapons ref1

pilotless helicopters ref1

police-military control system ref1, ref2, ref3

Russia ref1

smart cities ref1

synthetic humans ref1

terrorism ref1

United States ref1

warships ref1

world army ref1

arms see weapons

A rmstrong, Neil ref1

A l-’A rniri, Sa’id Mahrnud Naj rn ref1

A rthur, K ing ref1

artifi cial intelligence (AI)

5G ref1

algorithms ref1, ref2

Archontic intelligence ref1, ref2

Archontic inversion and distortion ref1, ref2

assimilation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

awareness, replacement of ref1

bail systems ref1

Big Bang theory ref1

Borg concept ref1

brain placidity ref1

cloud ref1

computer simulation ref1

computers, human minds communicating directly with ref1, ref2, ref3,

ref4

DeepMind ref1

definition ref1

digital-biological-mental and perpetual interface ref1

electromagnetism ref1

emotional responses ref1, ref2

end of humanity ref1, ref2, ref3

full control ref1

Gnostics ref1

hive mind ref1, ref2

Hollywood ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

nanoprobes (smart dust) ref1, ref2

nanotechnologies ref1, ref2, ref3

new technology as not being new ref1

office assistants ref1, ref2, ref3

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

predictive health technology ref1

singularity, definition of ref1

small companies, global companies buying ref1

smart infrastructure ref1

Smart Objects ref1

stem cells ref1

Strong AI ref1, ref2

synthetic humans ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

transhumanism ref1, ref2, ref3

warnings about future of humanity ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

A simov, Isaac ref1

al-A ssad, Bashar ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

assimilation ref1

5G ref1 , ref2, ref3, ref4

Amazon’s Alexa ref1

Apple ref1, ref2, ref3

Archontic corporations ref1

Archontic counterfeit spirit ref1

Archontic force ref1

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

augmented reality ref1

awareness ref1, ref2, ref3

Borg concept ref1, ref2

chemtrails ref1

CIA ref1, ref2

cloud ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

computers, human minds communicating directly with ref1, ref2, ref3,

ref4

consciousness ref1

DARPA ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

downloading knowledge and skills ref1

driverless vehicles ref1, ref2

electric cars ref1

emotional responses ref1

Facebook ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Google ref1, ref2

graphene ref1

Greys ref1, ref2

hive mind ref1, ref2, ref3

Hollywood as programming operation ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Internet, control by ref1

nanotechnology ref1, ref2

new technology as not being new ref1

perception programming ref1, ref2

pilotless passenger aircraft ref1

The Program ref1

satellites ref1, ref2

Smart cities ref1

superhuman/psychic powers ref1

technology giants ref1, ref2

transcendence ref1

transhumanism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Zionism ref1

astrology

computer simulation, world as ref1, ref2

holographs ref1

Gnosticism ref1

Owl of Saturn Saturn ref1

Upper Aeons ref1

Vedic astrology ref1, ref2

A taturk: The Rebirth of a Nation. Kinross, Patrick ref1

A tkinson, Richard ref1

atoms ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

A tta, Mohammed ref1

A ttenborough, David ref1

attention

awareness ref1

Body-Mind ref1

Creation ref1

death ref1, ref2

five senses ref1

forest/twigs ref1

frequencies ref1, ref2, ref3

hijacking ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Infinite Attention ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

near-death experiences ref1

perceptions, controlling ref1

rage ref1

reality ref1

symbols ref1, ref2

A ttwood, Shaun. American Made ref1

A tzmon, Gilad ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

A uden, WH ref1

augmented reality ref1

A ustralia

climate change ref1, ref2

indigenous Australians ref1

micro-apartments ref1

mothers to seek employment, encouraging or forcing ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

Pine Gap underground base, Alice Springs ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

vaccines ref1

The A ustralian ref1

A ustria, Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS) movement in ref1

awareness see also I nfi nite A wareness

artificial intelligence ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2, ref3

attention, points of ref1

Body-Alcatraz ref1

brain ref1

death ref1

disconnection ref1

frequency bands ref1

ghosts ref1

Great Inversion ref1

heart ref1, ref2

Infinite Awareness ref1, ref2, ref3

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

near-death experiencers ref1, ref2

perceptions ref1, ref2, ref3

physics and numbers, alien life as ref1

pure ref1, ref2

quantum universe ref1

replacement ref1

ridicule ref1

totality of Awareness ref1

visible light ref1, ref2, ref3

We Are Awareness ref1

ayahuasca ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

A yed, Muhammad ref1, ref2

A zaria, Elor ref1

A ztecs ref1

B

Babylon

Anunna/Anunnaki ref1, ref2

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

Church of Babylon, Christianity as ref1

dove symbolism ref1

egg symbolism ref1

Great Flood ref1

Ishtar’s egg ref1

Mystery schools ref1

Nimrod (father–god) ref1, ref2, ref3

numbers ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

sacrificial worship ref1

Satanism ref1

Semiramis/Ishtar (virgin mother) ref1

sun worship ref1

Tammuz/Ninus (virgin-born son) ref1

bail-ins ref1, ref2

bailouts ref1

bail systems ref1

Baines, Kevin ref1

Balfour, Arthur ref1

Bamford, James ref1

banking

algorithms ref1

bank accounts, government taking money from ref1

cartels ref1

central banks ref1

currency, one global ref1

employment ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

progressives ref1

software El-ite ref1, ref2

Bannon, Steve ref1

Barber, Anthony ref1

Bartley, Jonathan ref1, ref2

Batcho, Paul ref1

Batman films ref1

Barton, Jacqueline ref1

Barzun, Jacques ref1

Bates, John ref1

Bauer, Mayer Amschel ref1

Bavarian I lluminati ref1

‘ Baxter Dmitry’ ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Bayer ref1, ref2

BBC

climate change ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

equal pay ref1

‘our values’ ref1

transgender persons ref1, ref2

Beane, Silas ref1, ref2

bee population, decline in ref1

Begin, Menachem ref1, ref2

Belgium ref1

Bellamy, Hans Schindler. Moons, Myths and Men ref1

Ben I shai, Paul ref1

Bennett, Bill ref1

Bennett, Bob ref1

Bennett, Naftali ref1

Berg, Chris ref1

Bergrun, Norman ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Ringmakers of Saturn ref1

Berkeley, George ref1

Berkowitz, Avrahm ref1

Berkowitz, David ( Son of Sam) ref1

Berman, Bob and Lanza, Robert. Biocentrism ref1, ref2

Bernanke, Ben ref1

Bernard, Ronald ref1, ref2, ref3

Bernays, Edward. Propaganda ref1

Berne, Eric ref1

Bernstein, Carl ref1

Bertolucci, Sergio ref1

Betelgeuse ref1

Beyonce ref1

Bezos, Jeff ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Big Bang theory ref1, ref2, ref3

Bible

Archons ref1

Demiurge ref1

Genesis ref1

Great Flood ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Koran ref1

New Jerusalem in Revelations ref1, ref2

New Testament Infinite Awareness ref1

Koran, figures in the ref1

Revelations ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Number of the Beast ref1

Old Testament ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

Revelations ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

war ref1

The Biggest Secret. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8,

ref9, ref10

Bild ref1

Bilderberg Group ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Bill and Melinda Gates

F oundation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

bin Laden family ref1

bin Laden, Osama ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

bin Mushi, Mordechai bin

I brahim ref1

bin Saud, Muhammad ref1

Biocentrism. Berman, Bob and Lanza, Robert ref1, ref2

Biocentrism. Lash, John Lamb ref1

Biodiversity Convention (UN) ref1

biological computer, body as ref1, ref2

Black Bloc ref1

black cubes

Archons ref1

Borg concept ref1

churches and cathedrals ref1

Elysium ref1

freemasons ref1, ref2

frequencies ref1

Hell ref1

hexagrams ref1, ref2, ref3

hypercubes ref1

hypersquares ref1

Israel, creation of ref1

Judaism ref1, ref2

Kaaba in Mecca ref1

law and control, organisations related to ref1, ref2

Matrix ref1

numbers ref1

Rothschilds ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

shadow projections ref1

sound ref1

United States, blocks in urban areas in ref1

black-eyed people ref1

black holes as computers ref1

Black Lives Matter (BLM) ref1, ref2

Blackwater ref1

Blair, Tony ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11,

ref12,

ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17, ref18, ref19, ref20, ref21

blasphemy ref1, ref2, ref3

Bloom, Raphi ref1

Bloomberg Business ref1

Bloomberg, Michael ref1, ref2

Bludorf, F ranz and F osar, Grazyna. V ernetzte I ntelligenz ref1

Blunkett, David ref1

B’nai B’rith (Sons of the Covenant) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

body see also Body-Mind

biological computer, DNA as ref1, ref2

Body-Alcatraz ref1

brain-body ref1

out-of-body experiences ref1

ownership ref1

Soul ref1

Body-Mind

attention ref1

computer simulation ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

disconnection ref1

holographs ref1

Infinite Self ref1

Intellect ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

paranormal ref1

perceptions ref1

Soul ref1, ref2

Borg concept ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

black cubes ref1

Collective ref1

drones ref1

hive mind ref1

films and television ref1

nanotechnology ref1

transhumanism ref1

Bohemian Grove ref1, ref2

Bollyn, Christopher ref1

Bonifi eld, John ref1

Bono ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Booz A llen H amilton ref1

Bostrom, Nick ref1

Boycott, Divestment and

Sanctions ( BDS) movement ref1, ref2

Bradshaw, Samantha ref1

Brabeck, Peter ref1

brain see also left brain

awareness ref1

biological computer, as ref1

brain-body ref1

chatter ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1, ref2

consciousness ref1, ref2

electromagnetism ref1

encoding/decoding ref1, ref2

five senses ref1, ref2

placidity ref1, ref2

quantum computer waveform Universe ref1

receiver, as ref1

reptilian humans ref1

right brain ref1, ref2

scale of information ref1

smart technology, effect of ref1

synaesthesia 22 ‘third eye’ (crystalline pineal gland) ref1

video games ref1

Brave New World. H uxley, A ldous ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Brazil ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Brazile, Donna ref1

Breitbart, com ref1

Bresheeth, Haim ref1

Brett, Robin ref1

Brexit ref1, ref2

climate change ref1

fake news ref1

foreign interference ref1

General Election 2017, results of ref1

GMOs ref1

hard Brexit ref1

IMF ref1

immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

older people ref1

open borders after Brexit ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

progressives ref1, ref2, ref3

racism ref1

Russia ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

soft Brexit ref1

superstates, creation of ref1

Web ref1, ref2

white working class ref1

world leaders ref1

Brin, Sergey ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

British Medical A ssociation ( BMA ) . The Guide to Effective

Communication:

Inclusive Language in the Workplace ref1

British royal family

Balmoral ref1, ref2

bloodlines ref1

child abuse ref1, ref2

divine right to rule ref1

empathy ref1

interbreeding ref1

kidnapping schemes ref1

mind control ref1

ritual, obsession with ref1

Satanism ref1

shapeshifting ref1, ref2

Sigil of Saturn logo ref1

software El-ite ref1

symbolism ref1

Vlad family ref1

Brnabić , Ana ref1, ref2

Brookings I nstitution ref1

Brooks, Thom ref1

Brown, Bob ref1

Brown, Gordon ref1

Brzezinski, Zbigniew ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

The Giant Chessboard ref1

Buddhist extremism ref1

buildings/constructions

advanced construction ref1

Archon visitations ref1

divine proportion ref1

numbers ref1

Bulan, K ing of K hazars ref1

Bush, George HW ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13

Bush, George W ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, 4 ref10,

ref11, ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17

Bush, Vannevar ref1

Butler, Alan ref1

C

Caldicott, Fiona ref1

CA LO ( Cognitive A ssistant that

Learns and Organizes) Proj ect ref1

Cameron, David ref1, ref2

Campaign against A ntisemitism (CAA) ref1, ref2, ref3

Campbell, Alastair ref1, ref2

Campbell, Nicky ref1, ref2

Canada

antiSemitism ref1, ref2, ref3

cancellation of events ref1, ref2, ref3

Israel, support for ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

transgender persons ref1

United States ref1

war ref1

Canadian Global A ffairs

I nstitute (CGAI) ref1

cancellation of events ref1, ref2, ref3

cancer

chemotherapy ref1

negative thoughts as causing ref1

radiation ref1

radiotherapy ref1

smart phones ref1

cannibalism ref1

Cantle, Ted ref1

Cardin, Benjamin ref1

Carlin, George ref1, ref2, ref3

Carlson, Tucker ref1

Carnegie Endowment for I nternational Peace ref1

Carnicom, Clifford E ref1

Carosso, Emmanuel ref1

Carpenter, Scott ref1

Carr, Andrew ref1

Carr, William James Guy. Satan, Prince of this World ref1

Carroll, Lewis ref1

Carroll, Sean ref1

carrot and stick techniq ue of rewards and punishment ref1, ref2

Cartalucci, Tony ref1

Carter, Ashton ref1

Carter, Jimmy ref1, ref2, ref3

Casey, William ref1

cash, deleting ref1

Castaneda, Carlos ref1

Castro, Fidel ref1

cataclysmic events ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Cathars in Southern France, burning of ref1

cave, Plato’s allegory of the ref1, ref2

Cavoukian, Ann ref1

Celts ref1

Censorinus ref1

censorship

advertising ref1, ref2

algorithms ref1, ref2, ref3

alternative media ref1

Amazon ref1, ref2

blacklisting ref1

blasphemy ref1

cabal ref1, ref2

conspiracy theories ref1, ref2, ref3

empathy ref1

European Union ref1

Facebook ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3

freedom of expression ref1, ref2, ref3

freedom of opinion ref1

Germany ref1, ref2

Google ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

hacking scandal ref1

Holocaust ref1

Islam ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

mainstream media ref1, ref2

monopolies ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution ref1

progressives ref1, ref2

racism ref1

religion ref1

search engines ref1

social media ref1, ref2

South Africa ref1

terrorism ref1

Twitter ref1

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

Wahhabism ref1

Web ref1, ref2

YouTube ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Center for Strategic and I nternational Studies ( CSI S) ref1

Central I ntelligence A gency see CI A

CERN ref1

Bilderberg Group ref1

gateway to the underworld ref1

hexagons ref1

Higgs boson ref1

Large Hadron Collider ref1, ref2

Lord Shiva ref1

numbers ref1

Saturn ref1

sunspot activity ref1

synchrotron, definition of ref1

Chakrabarti, Shami ref1

chakras ref1

acupuncture ref1

brow ref1

crown ref1

heart ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

sacral ref1

solar plexus ref1

throat ref1

vortex points ref1

Chaldeans of Mesopotamia ref1

Champion, Sarah ref1, ref2

CH A NI proj ect ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Channel F our (UK) ref1, ref2

Channel 4 News ref1

Chaput, John ref1

Charity Commission ref1

Charles, Prince of Wales ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Charlottesville, V irginia, violence at protests in ref1

Chatelain, Maurice ref1

chemical weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

chemtrails ref1

aluminium ref1

Alzheimer’s and dementia, increase in ref1

bee population, decline in ref1

climate change ref1, ref2

conspiracy theories ref1

contrails ref1, ref2

GMOs ref1

geoengineering ref1

HAARP ref1, ref2

Mainstream Everything ref1

Met Office (UK) ref1

nanoprobes (smart dust) ref1

nanotechnologies ref1, ref2

ozone layer ref1

‘Saturn’ Earth ref1

weather, control of ref1, ref2

Cheney, Dick ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Cher ref1

Chertoff, Michael ref1, ref2

children see also paedophiles;

parents abuse British royal family ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

indoctrination into religion ref1, ref2

mind control ref1, ref2

sacrifices ref1

state ref1

British royal family ref1

Christianity ref1

empathy ref1

family breakdown, encouraging the ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

incest ref1

indoctrination into religion ref1, ref2, ref3

Islam ref1

Judaism ref1

kidnapping schemes ref1

mind control ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1

Ritalin ref1, ref2

sacrifices ref1, ref2

Scotland, named person scheme in ref1

social services, removal of children by ref1

state as stealing children ref1, ref2

transgender persons ref1, ref2

United States ref1

vaccines ref1

Children of the Matrix. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

China

anti-nuclear missile interception technology ref1

climate change hoax ref1

emperors as direct descendants of serpent gods ref1

North Korea ref1

propaganda attacks ref1

Security Council (UN) ref1

superhuman/psychic powers ref1

war ref1

Christianity see also Bible; Roman Church

Adam and Eve ref1, ref2

alternative media ref1

belief-imposition ref1

child abuse ref1

Christmas ref1

Church of Babylon ref1

Council of Nicaea ref1

culture, being born into the ref1

dove, Holy Spirit as a ref1

Easter ref1, ref2

Eucharist ref1

fish-god religions ref1

fractal patterns ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

Garden of Eden ref1

hate groups ref1

Islam, crossovers with ref1

Jesus, nonexistence of ref1

Koran, mentions of NT figures in ref1

LGBT, hate speech against ref1

mass slaughter ref1

mitres ref1

Protestants ref1, ref2

Roman Church ref1

Rothschilds ref1

sacrifice ref1

Saturnalia ref1

symbolism ref1, ref2, ref3

tyranny ref1

virgin mother story, antecedents of ref1

women ref1

Christopher, Warren ref1

Church, Frank ref1

CI A (Central Intelligence Agency)

Amazon ref1

Apple ref1

assassination operations ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2

Clandestine Services Unit ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

Deep State ref1

Google ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Israel, control of journalists in ref1, ref2

mainstream media, control of ref1, ref2

media ref1, ref2

MKUltra ref1, ref2

NATO ref1

psychic assassination squad ref1

Russia, demonisation of ref1

satirical journalists ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks ref2, ref3

superhuman/psychic powers ref1

surveillance ref1

Syria ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

training centres ref1

UK journalists, control of ref1

whistleblowing ref1

Cicero ref1

City of London ref1

civil asset forfeiture ref1

Clark, Wesley ref1

class

Antifa ref1

hate ref1

illusion, as ref1

immigration ref1

Labour Party ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East ref1, ref2

oppression ref1, ref2

self-identity ref1

white working class ref1, ref2

Clegg, Nick ref1

clickbait ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

climate change ref1

97% of scientists statistic ref1

Agenda 21 (UN) ref1, ref2, ref3

Agenda 2030 (UN) ref1, ref2

Arctic ice cap, growth of ref1

BBC ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Biodiversity Convention (UN) ref1

Brexit ref1

carbon dioxide, increase in ref1, ref2

centralisation ref1

chemtrails ref1, ref2

China, hoax by ref1

Climategate ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

cull of human population ref1

de-industrialisation ref1

eco-fascists ref1

education, dumbing down of ref1

electromagnetic fields ref1

extremism ref1

family, destruction of ref1

food and drink ref1

fracking ref1

Frankfurt School of social engineering ref1

gentrification ref1

Global Challenges Foundation ref1

greenhouse gases ref1

Grenfell Tower disaster, London ref1

Habitat III summit (UN) ref1

hoax ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

human cull ref1

human settlement zones, creation of ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1

hurricanes in United States ref1

IPCC (UN) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

League of Nations ref1

Little Ice Age 16th centry-19th century ref1

Mainstream Everything ref1

Maldives, sea-level rises in ref1

Maunder Minimum ref1

Medieval Warm Period 950-1250 ref1

megacities ref1

micro-apartments ref1

money ref1, ref2

NASA ref1

New World Order ref1

NOAA ref1

ocean warming ref1

Paris Conference 2015 ref1, ref2

perception control ref1

progressives ref1, ref2, ref3

propaganda ref1

pyramid structure ref1

religion ref1

Rio Summit ref1

Rockefellers ref1, ref2

Rothschilds ref1

scalar field ref1

schools ref1, ref2

social engineering ref1

sunspot activity ref1

surveillance ref1

sustainable development ref1

Syria, war in ref1

Totalitarian Tiptoe ref1

trigger warnings ref1

tyranny ref1

UNESCO ref1

United Nations ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

urbanisation ref1

weather, control of the ref1

world government ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1

Clinton, Bill ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14

Clinton F oundation ref1

Clinton, H illary ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17

Clooney, Amal ref1

Clooney, George ref1

cloud

armed forces ref1

artificial intelligence ref1

connection of human mind ref1, ref2, ref3

5G ref1

hive mind ref1, ref2, ref3

mind control ref1, ref2

nanotechnologies ref1

vehicles, control of ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

Club of Rome ref1, ref2, ref3

CNN ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12,

ref13

code see encoding/decoding

cognitive dissonance ref1

Cohen, Leonard ref1

Cohen, Richard ref1

Cohn, Gary ref1, ref2

Colbert, Stephen ref1

Coleman, John ref1

collective response and outcomes ref1

colonialism

Africa and Americas, suppression of people in ref1

independence ref1

indigenous Australians ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East ref1

software El-ite ref1

South Africa ref1

United Kingdom ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

United States ref1

colours ref1, ref2, ref3

Comey, James ref1, ref2

Commission on H uman Rights (CHR) (UN) ref1

Community Security Trust (CST) ref1

Computational Propaganda Proj ect. ‘ Troops, Trolls and

Troublemakers:

A Global I nventory of Organised Social Media Manipulation’ ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1 see also one big program

Archontic force ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

assimilation ref1

astrology ref1, ref2

bad copies ref1, ref2

Body-Mind ref1

brain ref1, ref2

constraints and limitations ref1

control ref1, ref2

electricity ref1, ref2

error-correcting codes ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

holographs ref1

in plain sight ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Microsoft reality ref1

nature, laws of ref1

numbers ref1, ref2

one (simulated) system ref1

oscillation ref1

perception deception ref1

physics, laws of ref1

Satanism ref1

scalar field ref1

video games ref1

computer universe ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1, ref2

Infinite Awareness ref1

information ref1, ref2, ref3

interactivity ref1

Internet symbolism ref1

perceptions ref1

quantum computer system ref1

computers see also computer simulation, world as; computer

universe;

q uantum

computers

biological computer, DNA as ref1

digital holograms ref1, ref2

global computer system ref1

human minds communicating directly with computers ref1, ref2, ref3,

ref4

confederacy of dunces ref1

Confucius ref1

consciousness

assimilation ref1

brain ref1, ref2

energy ref1

five senses ref1

heart ref1

Internet, of ref1

labels ref1

perceptions ref1

conspiracy theories

advertising ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3

chemtrails ref1

CIA ref1, ref2

climate change ref1

countering conspiracy theories, ways of ref1

definition ref1

geoengineering ref1

Google ref1

Holocaust denial ref1

Mainstream Everything ref1

mainstream media ref1

media ref1

perception control ref1

politicians ref1

ridicule ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3

vaccinations ref1

whistleblowing ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1

Constantine, Roman Emperor ref1

contrails ref1, ref2

Cook, J onathan. Israel and the Clash of Civilisations: Iraq, Iran and

the Plan to

Remake the Middle East ref1

Cook, Robin ref1

Cooper, Anderson ref1, ref2

Cooper, Gordon ref1

Copernicus, Nicolaus ref1

Corbyn, Jeremy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Cosmic I nternet

alternative media ref1

biological computer, body as ref1

computer universe ref1, ref2

DNA ref1

homeopathy ref1

numbers ref1

planets and stars as information fields ref1

symbolism ref1

waveforms ref1

Coudenhove-K alergi, Richard von ref1, ref2

Council on F oreign Relations (CFR) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Council of Nicaea ref1

counterfeit spirit

Archons ref1

assimilation ref1

group-think ref1

paedophiles ref1

software El-ite ref1

Coventry City ref1

Coventry Evening Telegraph ref1

Cowling, Fran ref1

Creation ref1, ref2, ref3 see also Big Bang theory credit card debt ref1

Cremation of Care ref1

CRI F ref1

crisis actors ref1

Croatia, H uman Shield Party in ref1

Crockford, Susan ref1

Crowley, Anna ref1

Cruise, Tom ref1

Cryer, Ann ref1 c Crystalline silica ref1, ref2

cubes see black cubes

cull of human population ref1

agricultural land, poisoning of ref1

Archontic Reptilians ref1

climate change ref1, ref2

demise pill ref1

ecosystems, dismantling of ref1

Epicyte gene ref1

eugenics ref1

euthansia-on-demand ref1

GMOs ref1

health and wellbeing, attacks on ref1

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

sperm counts, fall in ref1

sterilisation gene ref1

Tiptoe Totalitarianism ref1, ref2

vaccines ref1

water supply, contraceptives in ref1

Culture

Apple ref1

deletion ref1

majority culture ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1, ref2

religion, being born into ref1

therapy culture ref1

currency

Archontic Reptilians ref1

hoax ref1

interest-free currency ref1

one global currency ref1

Current Biology. Dikker, Suzanne ref1

Curry, Judith ref1, ref2

Curry, Tommy ref1

Cyril, Patriarch of A lexandria ref1

Cyprus ref1, ref2

Cyrus, Miley ref1

D

Da V inci Code (film) ref1

da V inci, Leonardo ref1

Dagli, Zeliha ref1

Daily Mail ref1, ref2, ref3

Daily Telegraph ref1

D’A leo, Joe ref1

Dalrymple, Theodore ref1

D’A ngelo, Arianna ref1

Daniels, Anthony ref1

Danon, Danny ref1

dark matter ref1

dark web ref1

DA RPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)

armed forces ref1

CALO (Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes) Project ref1

Google ref1

Lockheed Martin ref1, ref2

microchips ref1

radiation ref1

Siri (Apple) ref1

SPIDER (Segmented Planar Imaging Detector for Electro-optical

Reconnaissance) ref1

synthetic humans ref1, ref2, ref3

Targeted Neuroplasticity Training (TNT) ref1

transhumanism ref1

Daq neesh, Omran ref1

Darwinism ref1

David, Gary A. Mirrors of Orion ref1

The David I cke Guide to the Global Conspiracy ref1

Davies, Paul C ref1

Davies, Sally ref1

Davis, Devra ref1, ref2

Dawabshe, Ahmed ref1

Dawkins, Richard ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Day, Richard ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

De V rij e Media ref1

Deane, John Bathurst. Worship of the Serpent ref1

death see also near-death experiences attention ref1, ref2

awareness ref1

biological computer, body as ref1

fear ref1

Death Star (Star Wars) analogy ref1

decoding see encoding/decoding Deep State

arms manufacturers, connections with ref1

independent corporations, connections with ref1

media ref1

military police ref1

perceptions ref1

Russia ref1

surveillance ref1

United States ref1

deeply, but not clearly, humans as thinking ref1, ref2

DeepMind ref1

Defense A dvanced Research Proj ects A gency see DA RPA

(Defense

Advanced Research Projects Agency) Del Ponte, Carla ref1

Delgado, Nick ref1

The Deliberate Dumbing Down of A merica. Iserbyt, Charlotte ref1

demise pills ref1

Demiurge

Adam and Eve ref1

Archon visitations ref1, ref2

counterfeit spirit ref1

distortion ref1, ref2

Elohim and El ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

Gnostics ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Insane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

Lower Aeons ref1, ref2

numbers ref1, ref2

possession ref1

reincarnation ref1

Satanists ref1

Saturn ref1

software El-ite ref1, ref2

war ref1, ref2

Democons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Depp, Johnny ref1

Descartes, René ref1

Diamandis, Peter ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Diana, Princess of Wales ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

DiCaprio, Leonardo ref1

digital holograms ref1, ref2

Dikker, Suzanne.

Current Biology ref1

Diodorus of Sicily ref1

discrimination see also racism

freedom, perceptions of ref1

genuine ref1

political correctness ref1 ref2, ref3

positive discrimination ref1

Disney ref1, ref2

dissociative identity disorder ref1, ref2

diversity ref1, ref2, ref3

divide and rule ref1

divination, art of ref1

‘ Dmitry, Baxter’ ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

DNA

biological computer, as ref1

biophotons ref1

communication ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1

Elite families ref1

evolution ref1

five senses ref1

fractal patterns ref1

frequencies ref1

healing ref1

information content ref1

junk DNA ref1

Little Me ref1

numbers ref1

Phantom DNA effect ref1

receiver-transmitter, DNA as a ref1, ref2

synthetic humans ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

waveforms ref1, ref2

wormholes ref1

Dogma Dawkins ref1

Dogon tribe in Mali ref1

Dö nmeh I slam ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

The Dö nmeh J ews and the Origin of the Saudi Wahhabis. K abar,

Rifat

Salim ref1

Doughty, Philip ref1

Dow Chemicals ref1

Dr Strange (film) ref1

Draco Reptilians ref1, ref2, ref3

Alpha Draconis ref1

Antarctica, base under ref1

hive mind ref1

human royalty and world leaders, appearing as ref1

Orion ref1

Orion Queen ref1, ref2

psychopaths ref1

shapeshifting ref1

Dracul, Vlad ref1

Dracula ref1

The Dragons of Eden.

Sagan, Carl ref1

dreams ref1

drink see food and drink Driskell, Nathan ref1

driverless vehicles ref1, ref2, ref3

drones ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Drudge Report ref1

drugs see also vaccines

ayahuasca ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Big Pharma ref1, ref2

children and Ritalin ref1, ref2

heroin production ref1

psychiatric drugs ref1, ref2

psychoactive states ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Ritalin ref1, ref2

side-effects ref1

Dubai police force, robots in ref1

Dudley, Joel ref1

Dugan, Regina ref1, ref2

Dumas, Roland ref1

DUMBS ( Deep Underground Military Bases) ref1, ref2

Duncan, Alan ref1

Duncan, Robert ref1

Duncan Smith, Iain ref1

Dunegan, Lawrence ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

DuPont ref1, ref2, ref3

Durden, Lisa ref1

D-Wave ref1

dystopian and control-by-machine fi lms ref1

E

Easter ref1, ref2

Eastlund, Bernard ref1, ref2

eating humans ref1, ref2

eBay ref1

echo chamber ref1, ref2

Edenhofer, Ottmar ref1

Edmonds, Noel ref1

Educate and Celebrate. Can I Tell You About Gender Diversity? ref1

education see schools and education; universities and colleges

Efrati, Baruch ref1

ego ref1, ref2, ref3

Egypt ref1

Alexandria, Royal or Great Library in ref1

Arab Spring ref1

cataclysmic events ref1

Isis ref1

Mystery schools ref1

Osiris ref1

Ra ref1

Sanafir Island ref1

Saturn ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

Einstein, Albert ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

Eisenhower, Dwight ref1, ref2

Eisler, Riane ref1

electric cars ref1

The Electric Universe.

Thornhill, Wallace and Talbott, David ref1

Electric Universe movement ref1

electricity

astrology ref1

brain ref1, ref2

climate change ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1

consciousness ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1

decoding ref1

dehydration ref1

DNA ref1

Electric Universe and Thunderbolts Project ref1

genetics ref1, ref2

Internet ref1

paranormal ref1

planetary magnetospheres ref1

reality ref1

Sun ref1

electromagnetism ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

brain ref1

cancer, negative thoughts as causing ref1

climate change ref1

computer simulation ref1

5G ref1

five senses ref1

gravity ref1

heart, power of the ref1

information ref1

Mercury, relocation of ref1

radiation ref1

reality ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

tarot cards ref1, ref2

waveforms ref1

electronic personhood, concept of ref1

Eliasson, Dan ref1

Elinder, Leif ref1

Eliyahu, Shmuel ref1

Elizabeth, the Q ueen Mother ref1, ref2, ref3

Elizabeth I I , Q ueen ref1, ref2, ref3

Ellner, Michael ref1

Elysium ref1

emotions

Archontic distortion ref1

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2

assimilation ref1

censorship ref1

children ref1

health ref1

love ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

racism ref1

religion ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

smart devices ref1

video games ref1

war ref1

Emoto, Masaru ref1, ref2

empathy

British royal family ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

revolution ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

software El-ite ref1

empire see colonialism

employment ref1

AI assimilation ref1

algorithms ref1

bail systems ref1

bankers ref1

driverless vehicles ref1

drones ref1

drudgery jobs ref1

European Union, electronic personhood concept in ref1

fast food industry ref1

Google ref1

hive mind ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1, ref2

judges, replacement of ref1

legal advice ref1

machines, replacement of humans by ref1

mothers to seek employment, encouraging or forcing ref1

robots ref1, ref2

Strong AI ref1

student debt ref1

sweatshops ref1

United States ref1

encoding/decoding

Archontic Reptilians ref1

atoms ref1, ref2

brain ref1, ref2

colour ref1

divide and rule ref1

experience ref1

five senses ref1

Gnosticism ref1 ref2

inside the mind ref1

LED screens ref1

mind control ref1

Observer Effect ref1, ref2

perceptions ref1, ref2

physical existence ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution ref1

reality ref1

Spirit ref1

synaesthesia ref1

television pictures ref1

video games ref1, ref2

waveforms ref1, ref2

end of humanity ref1, ref2, ref3

end of the world ref1

The End of Sex and the F uture. Greely, Henry ‘Hank’ ref1

energy and awareness ref1

Epicyte gene ref1

Epoch Times ref1

Epstein, Jeffrey ref1

Eq uilibrium (film) ref1

Erdogan, Recep Tayyip ref1

Esper, Mark ref1

Ethiopian J ews, racism against ref1

EU see European Union ( EU)

Eucharist ref1

eugenics ref1, ref2

Eurasia, control of ref1, ref2

European Central Bank (ECB) ref1, ref2, ref3

European Union (EU) see also Brexit

absorption of countries ref1

alternative medicine ref1

antiSemitism ref1

censorship ref1

corporate lobbying ref1

Cyprus ref1

dictatorship, as ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

elections ref1

electronic personhood ref1

Eurasian-Negroid race ref1

European Central Bank ref1, ref2, ref3

European Commission ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

European Parliament ref1, ref2, ref3

fake news ref1

forgotten, right to be ref1

France ref1

globalisation ref1

Greece and financial crisis ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1

IMF ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

NATO ref1

ownership of the world ref1

Scotland ref1

Serbia ref1

Ukraine, association agreement with ref1

war ref1

Zionism ref1

euthansia-on-demand ref1

Evans, David ref1, ref2

evolution ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Ewing, Maurice ref1

Exley, Christopher ref1

The Exorcist (film) ref1

Express newspapers ref1

Extremely Low F req uency (ELF) ref1, ref2

extremism

alternative media ref1

Buddhism ref1

climate change ref1

far right ref1

Islam ref1, ref2

moderate extremists ref1

Sabbatean Frankist Dönmeh Islamic extremists ref1

Smart phones ref1

YouTube ref1

F

F abius, Laurent ref1

F acebook

addiction ref1, ref2

advertising ref1

algorithms ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

attention hijack ref1, ref2

behaviour-changing experiments ref1

blasphemy ref1

brains to computers, connecting ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

chatbots ref1

clickbait ref1

concentration of power ref1

DARPA ref1

emotions ref1, ref2, ref3

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Gotthard Base railway tunnel, opening ceremony of ref1

hate speech ref1, ref2

information hijack ref1, ref2

perceptions, controlling ref1

psychological operations ref1

religion, as replacing ref1

Russia ref1

satellites ref1

Silicon Valley ref1, ref2

superhumans ref1

tax ref1

telepathy ref1

transhumanism ref1, ref2

wealth ref1

US presidential election 2016 ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3

fact-checking ref1

algorithms ref1, ref2

Deep State ref1

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3

mainstream media ref1

principles ref1

psychological operations ref1

Russian propaganda ref1

search engine prominence ref1

social media ref1

computer simulation ref1

definition ref1

madness masquerading as faith ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

same deities, same origins ref1

fairness ref1

fake news ref1, ref2

alternative media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Brexit ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3

clickbait ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

EU elections ref1

Facebook ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

fact-checkers ref1, ref2, ref3

five senses ref1

Google ref1, ref2, ref3

hoax ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3

outcomes ref1

political correctness ref1

political speech, regulation of ref1

Russia ref1, ref2

social media ref1

The System ref1

United States ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1

The F all ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

The F all: The I nsanity of the Ego in H uman H istory and the

Dawning of

a New Era ref1

F allon, Michael ref1, ref2

F alter, Gideon ref1

family, destruction of the

child stealing by state ref1

climate change ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

synthetic humans ref1

F armland Partners I nc ref1

fascists see also Antifa eco-fascists ref1

medical fascism ref1

political correctness ref1

progressives ref1

Satanism ref1

fast food industry ref1

F BI ( F ederal Bureau of I nvestigation) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6,

ref7

fear

Archons ref1, ref2

death ref1

Iraq, invasion of ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

F ederal Communication Commission ( F CC) ref1, ref2, ref3

feedback loops ref1, ref2, ref3

F eldman, Corey ref1

feminists ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

F ermi Paradox ref1

F ernandez, Ronald Bernard ref1

fi ckle fi nger ref1

F igueres, Christiana ref1

fi nance see money and fi nance

fi nancial crisis of 2 0 0 8

bail-ins ref1, ref2

bailouts ref1, ref2

bank accounts, government taking money from ref1

European Union ref1, ref2

freezing accounts Greece ref1, ref2, ref3

haircuts ref1

IMF ref1

F inkelstein, Norman ref1

F inland ref1

fi rewalking ref1

fi rewalls ref1, ref2, , ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

fi sh-god religions ref1

F ishburne, Lawrence ref1

F itzgerald, Christine ref1

fi ve senses

alternative media ref1

assimilation ref1

Body-Alcatraz ref1

brain ref1, ref2

consciousness ref1

divide and rule ref1

DNA ref1

elecromagnetism ref1

encoding/decoding ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

fake news ref1

Gnosticism ref1

health ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

reptilian humans ref1

scientific mind ref1

self-identity ref1

victims ref1

video games ref1

F eltz, Vanessa ref1

F ischer, Stanley ref1

F itch, Tim ref1

5 G ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

cloud ref1

electromagnetic fields ref1

FCC ref1

frequencies ref1

health, effect on ref1, ref2

hive mind ref1, ref2

human mind, takeover of ref1

human skin as receiver-transmitter ref1

mind control ref1

nanoprobes ref1

quantum computers ref1

radiation ref1

safety standards ref1

scalar field ref1

Smart Meters and Smart technology ref1

fl ights, refusal by orthodox J ews to sit next to women on ref1

F lynn, Michael ref1

food and drink ref1

Agenda 21 ref1

Agenda 2030 ref1

Bayer ref1

centralisation ref1

climate change ref1

fracking ref1

frequencies ref1

GMOs ref1, ref2

Hunger Games Society ref1

Monsanto ref1, ref2

Native American lands, pollution of ref1

seed ownership ref1

small farmers and community gardens, attacks on ref1

standing wave oscillation ref1

United States ref1

water, privatisation of ref1

waveforms ref1

Zionism ref1

zoning laws ref1

F oot, Michael ref1

F ord, Gerald ref1, ref2

F ord, Peter ref1

F oreign Policy ref1

forest/twigs

Archontic illusion ref1

Archontic Reptilian force ref1

divide and rule ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

frequencies ref1, ref2

Hollywood ref1

Infinite Self ref1

labels ref1

law enforcement ref1

left brain ref1, ref2

Phantom Self ref1

probability and possibility ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

Revelation ref1

self-identity ref1

Silicon Valley ref1

success, push for ref1

Truth Vibrations ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

F ortescue, Tim ref1

F osar, Grazyna and Bludorf, F ranz. V ernetzte I ntelligenz ref1

F ox, A maryllis ref1

F ox News ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

fracking ref1, ref2

fractal patterns ref1, ref2

F rance

Cathars in Southern France, burning of ref1

climate change ref1

election 2017 ref1

European Union ref1

Germany ref1

Libya ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

progressives ref1

rigged systems ref1

Russia ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

Security Council (UN) ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

vaccines ref1

F rances, A llen ref1

F rancis, Pope ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

F rank, J acob ref1, ref2

F rankfurt School ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

F rankfurter A llgemeine Z eitung ref1

F rankism ref1, ref2, ref3

F razer, Michael ref1

freedom see freedom of expression and opinion; freedom,

perceptions

of freedom of expression and opinion

antiSemitism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Antifa ref1

Archontic Reptilians ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3

Germany ref1

hate crime ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

progressives ref1

terrorism ref1

Zionism ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

banking ref1

beliefs ref1

child abuse ref1

Christianity ref1

deletion ref1 ref2

discrimination, genuine ref1

divide and rule ref1

empathy revolution ref1

faith ref1

group-think ref1

heart, power of the ref1

human minds ref1

identity politics ref1

intergenerational imposition of religion ref1

Islam child abuse ref1

culture, being born into

the ref1

extremists ref1

Sharia law ref1

Shia ref1

Sunnis ref1

love as ultimate power ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

new you ref1

open minds ref1

progressives ref1

religion ref1

sponge-minds and free minds ref1

victims ref1

F reeman, Morgan ref1

freemasons

black cubes ref1, ref2

Great Architect ref1

hexagrams ref1

Kabbalah ref1

numbers ref1

pope, murder of the ref1

Saturn/Demiurge frequency ref1

Sigil of Saturn ref1, ref2

Temple of Solomon ref1

F rench Revolution ref1

freq uencies see also H A A RP

( H igh-F req uency A ctive A uroral Research Program)

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3

awareness ref1

cancer, negative thoughts as causing ref1

colours ref1

Extremely Low Frequency (ELF) ref1, ref2

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

5G ref1

food and drink ref1

forest/twigs ref1, ref2

ghosts ref1

group-think ref1

hatred and rage ref1

heart, power of the ref1

holographs ref1

love as ultimate power ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

numbers ref1, ref2

paranormal activity ref1

perceptions ref1

physics, law of ref1

rainbows ref1

Satanists ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

self-identity ref1

software El-ite ref1, ref2

symbols ref1

truth vibrations ref1

visible light ref1

waveforms ref1

weather, control of ref1

Wi-Fi ref1

F reud, Sigmund ref1

F riedman, Jason ref1

F riends of I srael ref1, ref2, ref3

F roman, Michael ref1

F ukushima nuclear disaster ref1, ref2

F uredi, F rank ref1, ref2

What’s Happened to the University? ref1

G

‘G’ groups ref1, ref2

G2 0 ref1

Gaddafi , Muammar ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Gagliano, Monica ref1

Galant, Yoav ref1

Gandhi, Mahatma ref1

Garden of Eden ref1

Garj aj ev, Pjotr ref1

Garland, Shelley ref1

Gates, Bill ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Gates, Frederick T ref1

Gates, James ref1

Gates Sr, William H ref1

Gatto, John Taylor ref1

gay people see sexuality

Geithner, Timothy ref1

Geldof, Bob ref1

gender see males; women

Generation Y ( Millennials) ref1

genetically modifi ed organisms ( GMOs)

Brexit ref1

chemtrails ref1

Epicyte gene ref1

epigenetics ref1

food and drink ref1, ref2

health, effects on ref1

India ref1

seed ownership ref1

United States ref1

vaccines ref1

genetics

Archon visitations ref1

code ref1

Epicyte gene ref1

genome project ref1

human lifespan, limits to ref1

mind control ref1

numbers ref1

radiation ref1

reptilian humans ref1

manipulation ref1, ref2, ref3

Rothschilds ref1

sterilisation gene ref1

synthetic humans ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

Gentiloni, Paolo ref1, ref2

gentrifi cation ref1

geoengineering ref1

George Soros Open Society F oundations ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Germany see also Nazi

Germany

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

Basic Law ref1

BND (Germany) ref1, ref2

cancellation of events ref1, ref2

censorship ref1, ref2

France ref1

freedom of expression ref1

Holocaust denial, imprisonment for ref1

home schooling ref1

incitement of the people law ref1

mainstream media ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3

totalitarianism ref1

Ghost in the Shell (film) ref1

The Ghost I nside My Child (television series) ref1

ghosts ref1, ref2

Gianotti, Fabiola ref1

The Giant Chessboard. Brzezinski, Zbigniew ref1

Global Challenges F oundation ref1

global computer system

prediction of public responses ref1

triggering responses ref1

global families, network of ref1

global governance ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

global warming see climate change

globalisation ref1, ref2, ref3

GMOs see genetically modifi ed organisms ( GMOs)

Gnosticism ref1 see also A rchons; Nag H ammadi texts

Adam and Eve ref1, ref2

aeons ref1, ref2, ref3

Lower Aeons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Upper Aeons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

All That Is/Infinite Awareness ref1

artificial intelligence ref1

Body and Soul ref1

Cathars in Southern France, burning of ref1

computer simulation/bad copy ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

Creation ref1

decoding ref1

Demiurge ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

the Error ref1

Father symbolism ref1

fickle finger ref1

five senses ref1

Gnosis, meaning of ref1

Gnostic, meaning of ref1

imbalanced state of awareness ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Infinite Imagination ref1

Insane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

inversion ref1

Moon ref1

nous, using your ref1

Origin of the World ref1

Ouroboros/Leviathan ref1

paedophiles ref1

Pistis Sophia ref1

psychoactive potions ref1

reality, bad copies of ref1, ref2

Realms of Down here ref1

Ring-Pass-Not ref1, ref2

Roman Church ref1

Royal or Great Library in Alexandria ref1

shadow projections ref1

software El-ite ref1

Soul and Spirit as not the same thing ref1

Soul/Mind ref1

truth vibrations ref1

vampire gods ref1

Goat-god Pan ref1, ref2

God/gods

clerics ref1

fish-god religions ref1

Goat-god Pan ref1, ref2

God Program ref1, ref2

Insane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

Mithras ref1

same deities, same origins ref1

Satanism ref1

space and time ref1

vampire gods ref1

we are ‘God’, claims that ref1

God v The Devil ref1

Goering, H ermann ref1

Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von ref1

Golden A ge ref1

Goldman Sachs ref1, ref2, ref3

Google

advertising ref1

alternative media ref1

Alphabet ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

assimilation ref1, ref2

Assistant ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

CIA ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

conspiracy theories ref1

DARPA ref1

DeepMind ref1

demonization ref1

Digital News Initiative ref1

employment ref1

fact-checkers ref1

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3

hate speech ref1, ref2

health division ref1

information hijack ref1

market domination ref1, ref2, ref3

numbers ref1

predictive health technology ref1

presidential election 2016 ref1

quantum computers ref1, ref2

robots ref1

satellites ref1

Silicon Valley ref1

Singularity University ref1

smart devices, addiction to ref1

superhumans ref1

tax ref1

transhumanism ref1

Verily ref1

wearables ref1

White Helmets ref1

YouTube ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Gore, A l ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 An Inconvenient Truth ref7,

ref8

Gospel of Thomas ref1

Goss, Porter ref1

Gotham, use of word ref1

Gotthard Base railway tunnel, opening ceremony of ref1, ref2

Goulding, David ref1

gradualism ref1

Graham, Bob ref1

Graham, Lindsey ref1, ref2

Grand Canyon, creation of ref1

Grande, Ariana ref1

Grant, Hugh ref1

graphene ref1

Grattidge, Gordon ref1

gravity ref1, ref2

Gray, Peter ref1, ref2

Great Britain see United K ingdom

Great Change ref1

Great F lood

Archon visitations ref1

Bablylonian Talmud ref1

Biblical version, earlier sources of ref1

Khima ref1

Moon ref1

Noah, different names for ref1

tidal wave, as a ref1

Great Nebula ref1

Great Spirit ref1

Greece

financial crisis and European Union ref1, ref2

Greeks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

moderate extremists ref1

Greely, Henry ‘Hank’. The End of Sex and the Future ref1

Green Parties ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Greenblatt, Jason ref1, ref2

Greenblatt, Jonathan ref1

Greene, Jennifer ( Wilder, Arizona) ref1, ref2, ref3

Grenfell Tower disaster, London ref1, ref2, ref3

Greenspan, Alan ref1, ref2

Greys

Archon visitations ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2

caverns and caves, in ref1

drones ref1

hive mind ref1

Nag Hammadi texts ref1

near-death experiences ref1

Orion ref1

Orion Queen ref1

psychopaths ref1

spacesuits ref1

synthetic humans ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

war ref1

Zeta Reticuli ref1

Grim Reaper ref1

grooming gangs ref1

group-think ref1, ref2, ref3

The Guardian ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Gurnett, Don ref1

Guterres, Antonio ref1

Gysi, Gregor ref1

H

H aaretz ref1

H A A RP ( H igh-F req uency A ctive A uroral Research Program)

chemtrails ref1, ref2

radiation ref1, ref2

weather, control of ref1

H aass, Richard ref1

H abitat I I I summit (UN) ref1

hacking scandal ref1

H aglof, Sandra ref1

H ague, William ref1

H aim, Corey ref1

H aley, Nikki ref1, ref2, ref3

H alkin, Hillel ref1

H all, Anthony ref1

H all, Manly P ref1, ref2, ref3

Secret Teachings of A ll A ges ref1

H amilton, Lee ref1

hammer and sickle symbol ref1, ref2

H amzeh, Samy Mohamed ref1

H anegbi, Tzachi ref1

H arari, Yuval ref1

H arper, Stephen ref1

H arris, Tristan ref1

H arry Potter (films) ref1

hate and hate speech/groups

antiSemitism ref1

Christianity ref1

class ref1

crime ref1, ref2, ref3

Facebook ref1, ref2

freedom of expression ref1

frequencies ref1

funding anti-hate groups ref1

Google ref1, ref2

heart ref1, ref2

Israel/Palestine ref1

laughter ref1

LGBTIQ people ref1

love, projection of ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

offenders register, proposal for ref1

paid trolls ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

progressives ref1

protests ref1

Provisional Progressives ref1

rage ref1

social media ref1

statistics, use of ref1

reporting ref1

Rothschilds ref1

terrorism ref1

United Kingdom ref1

virtue signalling ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3

H avelock, Ronald. Innovations in Education: A Change Agent’s

Guide ref1

H awking, Stephen ref1, ref2

H ayes, Billy ref1

H aynes, John-Dylan ref1

health see also vaccines

alternative healing ref1, ref2

cancer ref1, ref2, ref3

cull of human population ref1

Deep Patient ref1

fake surgery ref1

fascism ref1

5G ref1, ref2

GMOs ref1

Google ref1

healing ref1

llness, negative thoughts as causing ref1

madness ref1

placebo effect ref1

predictive health technology ref1

radiation ref1, ref2, ref3

terminal illness, doctors’

timeframes for ref1

health and safety risk assessments ref1

heart

awareness ref1

chakras ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

consciousness ref1

electromagnetism ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

frequencies ref1

hate ref1, ref2

head versus heart conflict ref1

intuition ref1

power of the heart ref1

H eath, Edward ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

H eberlein, Ann ref1

H eisenberg, Werner Karl ref1

H elF em ref1

helicopters, pilotless ref1

hell ref1, ref2

‘ H empher’ ref1

H endi, Walid ref1

H enry J ackson Society ref1

H erles, Wolfgang ref1

H erndon, J Marvin ref1

H ersch, Seymour ref1, ref2

hexagrams/hexagons

black cubes ref1, ref2, ref3

CERN ref1

chakra (heart) ref1

Christianity ref1

freemasons ref1, ref2

Mesopotamia ref1

Saturn ref1

Seal of Solomon ref1

Star of David ref1, ref2

storm ref1

H icks, Bill ref1, ref2

H iggs boson ref1

H igh-F req uency A ctive A uroral Research Program see H A A RP

high-technology craft in ancient texts ref1

H immler, Heinrich ref1

H induism ref1, ref2, ref3

animal sacrifice ref1

Islam ref1

vedic astrology ref1, ref2

Western new age movement ref1

H istory Channel ref1, ref2

history, erasing ref1

The H tchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy. Adams, Douglas ref1

H itler, Adolf ref1, ref2, ref3

H itler’s People’s Receiver ref1

hive mind

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2

assimilation ref1, ref2

Borg concept ref1

CIA ref1

cloud ref1

Digital Library Initiative (DLI) ref1

Draco Reptilians ref1

employment ref1

Greys ref1

nanotechnologies ref1

H ocking, Amanda ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

H ollande, François ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

H ollywood

antiSemitism ref1

artificial intelligence ref1

assimilation ref1

dystopian and control-by-machine films ref1

forest/twigs ref1

Internet of Things ref1

mind control ref1

paedophiles ref1

programming operation, as ref1

Satanism ref1

synthetic humans ref1

The H ollywood Reporter ref1

H olmes, James ref1

H olocaust

censorship ref1

conspiracy theorists ref1

denial ref1, ref2

Germany, imprisonment for denial in ref1

Israel, exploitation by ref1

holographs

3D moving images ref1

ageing ref1

astrology ref1

atoms ref1

Body-Mind ref1

colours ref1

computer simulations ref1, ref2

creation of holograms ref1

decoding ref1, ref2

digital holograms ref1, ref2

freedom, perceptions of ref1

health ref1

homeopathy ref1

illusion ref1

light reflecting from objects ref1

mainstream media ref1

Moon ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

prisons ref1

reality ref1, ref2, ref3

self-identity ref1

touching ref1

transhumanism ref1

Universe ref1

waveforms ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

H oly Spirit ref1

home schooling ref1

homelessness ref1

homeopathy ref1

homosexuality see sexuality

honour killings ref1, ref2

H ood, Lon ref1

H opkins, John ref1

H ouse, Richard ref1

H ow to Respond to V ocal V accine Deniers in Public. WHO ref1

H oward, Michael ref1

H uffington Post ref1, ref2, ref3

human body see body human mind see also Body-Mind; mind control

brain ref1

closed mind ref1

cloud ref1, ref2, ref3

DeepMind ref1

downloading ref1

5G ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

hard drive, relocation of mind to ref1

open mind ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

quantum computer waveform Universe ref1

scientific mind ref1

Soul ref1, ref2, ref3

sponge-minds and free minds ref1

uploading ref1

H uman Race Get Off Y our K nees. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

ref5

human rights ref1

human settlement zones, creation of ref1

human skin as receiver-transmitter ref1

H ungary ref1

H unger Games (film) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

H unger Games Society ref1

bail-ins ref1

bank accounts, government taking money from ref1

cash, deleting ref1

civil asset forfeiture ref1

climate change ref1

credit card debt ref1

currency, one global ref1

employment ref1

European Union ref1

food and drink ref1

global governance ref1

homelessness ref1

multinationals, size of ref1

ownership of the world ref1

police-military control system ref1, ref2, ref3

poverty and dependency ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

three levels of society ref1

war ref1

wealth, concentrations of ref1

world government ref1

hurricanes ref1

H usley, J Leroy ref1

H uxley, Aldous ref1, ref2

Brave New World ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

H ypatia ref1

hypercubes ref1

hypersq uares ref1

I

‘ I H ave a Dream’ speech ref1

I bn Saud, King of Saudi Arabia (Rahman, Abdulaziz bin Abdul) ref1

I cahn, Carl ref1

ice age ref1, ref2

I cke, David

Alice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster ref1, ref2

And the Truth Shall Set You Free ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

antiSemitism, false accusations of ref1, ref2

arthritis ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

ayahuasca ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

BBC Sports presenter, as ref1

The Biggest Secret ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

Brazil ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Canada, cancellation of events in ref1, ref2, ref3

cancellation of events ref1, ref2, ref3

childhood ref1

Children of the Matrix ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

class ref1

contacts ref1

Facebook, ban from ref1

football career ref1

Germany, events cancelled in ref1, ref2

Green Party ref1, ref2

hate, accusations of preaching ref1

Human Race Get Off Your Knees ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Isle of Wight ref1, ref2

journalism ref1

Maritime Hotel, cancellation of booking by ref1

The Perception Deception ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8,

ref9,

ref10, ref11, ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16

Peru, 1991

visit to ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Phantom Self ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

racism ref1, ref2

Remember Who You Are ref1, ref2

reputation ref1

ridicule ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

heart versus head conflict ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

offended, choosing to be ref1

university degrees ref1

Robots’ Rebellion ref1

schooling ref1, ref2

Shine, Betty, messages through ref1, ref2, ref3

Truth Vibrations ref1

university and colleges ref1, ref2

Icke, Gareth ref1, ref2

Icke, Jaymie ref1, ref2, ref3

identity politics

freedom, perceptions of ref1

group-think ref1

labels ref1

LBGTIQ ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

nanotechnologies ref1

political correctness ref1

progressives ref1

transgender persons ref1

I dle, Eric ref1

I dso, Craig ref1

I enca, Marcello ref1

I G F arben ref1

illness, negative thoughts as causing ref1

I lluminati ref1

I misides, Mark ref1

immigration see multiculturalism and immigration

immune system ref1

implantables ref1

incest ref1

I nch, Mark S ref1

The I ndependent ref1, ref2

I ndia

GMOs ref1

Nagas people ref1

indigenous people

Africa and Americas, suppression of people in ref1

‘The Core’ ref1

Eskimos ref1

Great Spirit ref1

Hopi, Arizona ref1

indigenous Australians ref1

Lakota people ref1

Native American lands, pollution of ref1

quantum mechanics ref1

I nfi nite A ttention ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

I nfi nite A wareness ref1, ref2

All-Possibility ref1

All-Potential ref1, ref2

The All That Is ref1, ref2

artificial intelligence ref1

biological computer, body as ref1

blackness ref1

computer simulation ref1

computer universe ref1

Creation and creations ref1

divide and rule ref1

energy ref1

frequencies ref1

Gnosticism ref1, ref2

heart, power of the ref1

Infinite Imagination ref1, ref2

infinitely experiencing itself ref1, ref2

matter ref1

religion ref1

self-identity ref1, ref2

Upper Aeons ref1

vibration ref1

victims ref1

We are One ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

I nfi nite I magination ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

I nfi nite Love ref1

I nfi nite Self ref1

information

content ref1

hijack ref1

I nnovations in Education: A Change A gent’s Guide. Havelock,

Ronald ref1

I nouye, Daniel ref1

I nsane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

insanity see madness

I nstagram ref1

I nstitute of H eartMath ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

intelligence agencies see also CI A ( Central I ntelligence A gency)

five eyes

ref1

France ref1

media, control of ref1, ref2, ref3

MI5 ref1, ref2

Pakistan InterServices Intelligence (ISI) ref1, ref2

terrorism ref1

interbreeding ref1, ref2

I ntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) ref1, ref2, ref3,

ref4

I nternational Criminal Court (ICC) ref1, ref2

I nternational F act-Checking Network (IFCN) ref1

I nternational H olocaust Remembrance A lliance ref1

I nternational Monetary F und (IMF) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

I nternational Space Station (ISS) ref1

I nternet see also Cosmic I nternet; Smart technology; Wi-F i

consciousness, as having ref1

dominant websites ref1

freedom of expression ref1

giant companies ref1

information ref1, ref2

Internet of Things ref1, ref2

total surveillance, as vehicle for ref1

Zionists ref1

intuition ref1

I nvasion of the Bodysnatchers (film) ref1

The I nvention of the J ewish People. Sand, Shlomo ref1

inversion ref1

global human control ref1

Gnosticism ref1

Nag Hammadi texts ref1

nonhuman entities ref1

nous, using your ref1

Old Testament ref1

reality ref1

ionosphere heater technology ref1

I ran

chemical weapons ref1

Iraq, war with ref1

Israel and nuclear weapons ref1

Neocons ref1

nuclear weapons ref1, ref2

Saudi Arabia ref1

United States ref1, ref2

war ref1, ref2

I raq see also I raq , invasion of

chemical weapons ref1

Fallujah, US marines in ref1

intelligent reports ref1

Kurds ref1

I raq , invasion of ref1, ref2

alternative media ref1, ref2

fear campaign ref1

ICC, lack of prosecutions by ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

weapons of mass destruction ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

I reland

antiSemitism ref1, ref2, ref3

Irish4Israel ref1

I serbyt, Charlotte. The Deliberate Dumbing Down of America ref1

I SI S/I slamic State

child abuse ref1

creation ref1, ref2, ref3

destruction of ancient artefacts ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

Gulf allies ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

Jews as creators of ISIS ref1

Libya ref1

nihilism ref1

origins ref1

Ottoman Empire, removal of ref1

Rothschilds ref1

Russia ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

Satanism ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2, ref3

Syria ref1

terrorism ref1

Wahhabism ref1, ref2, ref3

war ref1, ref2

weapons, provision of ref1

whistleblowing ref1

Zionism ref1

I slam see also I SI S/I slamic State; Wahhabism

Buddhism ref1

censorship ref1

child abuse ref1

Christianity, crossovers with ref1

culture, being born into the ref1

divide and rule ref1

Dönmeh Islam ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

dress ref1

extremists ref1, ref2

faith, madness masquerading as ref1, ref2

freedom, perceptions of ref1, ref2

Hindus ref1

Islamophobia ref1, ref2

Jinn ref1

Koran, mentions of New Testament figures in ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

Myanmar, attacks on Muslims in ref1

Ramadan ref1

ritual sacrifices ref1

Sharia law ref1, ref2

Shia ref1, ref2, ref3

Sri Lanka, attacks on Muslims in ref1

Sunnis ref1, ref2, ref3

terrorism ref1

women ref1, ref2

I sle of Wight, I sland Mafi a in ref1, ref2

I srael and the Clash of Civilisations: I raq , I ran and the Plan to

Remake

the Middle East. Cook, Jonathan ref1

I srael/Palestine

anti-illegal settlement activities ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

Al Jazeera, attempts to close down ref1

Amnesty International ref1

Anti-Boycott Bill, criminal offences in ref1

Balfour Declaration ref1

Balkanisation of Middle East ref1

Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement ref1

British politicians, manipulation of ref1

Canada ref1

censorship ref1, ref2

creation of Israel ref1

Egypt ref1

electricity supplies, reduction of ref1

Ethiopian Jews, racism against ref1

European Union ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

frequencies ref1

Greater Israel ref1, ref2

half-shekel coin, discovery of a ref1

hatred and rage ref1

Holocaust, exploitation of ref1

IDF ref1

ISIS ref1, ref2

IsrAID ref1

Mossad ref1, ref2, ref3

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3

negotiations with Palestinians ref1

Neocons ref1, ref2

nuclear weapons ref1

Operation Protective Edge ref1

Palestinians killing of ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

women and young girls, jailing of ref1

Revisionist Zionism ref1

Rothschilds ref1

Russia ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1, ref2

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2

Six Day War and attack on USS Liberty ref1

social media, payment for positive comments in ref1

Syria ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Temple Mount ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2, ref3

Ukraine ref1

universities ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

water, poisoning ref1

World War Three ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2

I sraeli A partheid Week ref1

I taly, multiculturalism and

immigration in ref1

I TV ref1

I vri, Avishai ref1

J

J aber, Abu ref1

J ackson, Michael ref1

J acob ref1

J ames, PD ref1

J ami, Criss ref1

J ay, Alexis ref1

J aynes, Julian. The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the

Bicameral

Mind ref1

A l J azeera ref1, ref2, ref3

J ericho, destruction of ref1

J ersey ref1

J esus Christ ref1, ref2

J ewish Daily F orward ref1

J ewish Defence League (JDL) ref1

J ewish I nstitute for National Security A ffairs ref1

J ewish Representative Council of I reland ref1

J ews/J udaism see also antiSemitism; I srael/Palestine; Z ionism

angels, archangels and fallen angels ref1

Allyon/Abaddon ref1

black cubes ref1, ref2

child abuse ref1

Christianity, crossovers with ref1

Dönmeh Islam ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

El (god of Saturn) ref1

Elohim and El ref1

eruv area ref1

flights, refusal by orthodox Jews to sit next to women on ref1

indoctrination into religion ref1

ISIS, creation of ref1

Moon ref1

Passover ref1

prohibitions ref1

sacrifices ref1

Saturn-day as holy day ref1

Seal of Solomon ref1

serpent worship ref1

Star of David (hexagram) ref1, ref2

Tefillin ref1

ultra-orthodox ref1

women ref1, ref2

J inn ref1

j obs see employment

J obs, Steve ref1, ref2

J ohansson, Olle ref1

J ohn ( disciple) ref1

J ohn Paul I , Pope, murder of ref1

J ohnson, Jo ref1

J ohnson, Boris ref1, ref2

J ohnson, Lyndon B ref1

J ohnson, Samuel ref1

J ohnston, Ken ref1, ref2

J olie, Angelina ref1

J ones, Stuart ref1

J oshua, Book of ref1

J ournalists for H ire: H ow the CI A Buys the News. Ulfkotte, Udo ref1

J udaism see antiSemitism; J ews/J udaism

j udges, replacement of ref1

J uncker, Jean-Claude ref1

The J ungle Book ref1

J upiter

destruction of plant between Mars ref1

electromagnetic distortion ref1

orbit, changes in ref1

Saturn ref1

justice ref1

K

K aaba in Mecca ref1

K abar, Rifat Salim.The Dönmeh Jews and the Origin of the Saudi

Wahhabis ref1

K abbalah ref1

K addor, Lamya ref1

K agan, Robert ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

K ai-F u Lee ref1

K aku, Michio ref1

K alantri, Amit ref1

K ambouri, Tania ref1

K atz, Rita ref1

K aufman, Gerald ref1, ref2

K awesa, Victoria ref1, ref2

K ean, Thomas ref1

K eith, David ref1

K emal (Atatü rk), Mustafa ref1

The K eepers (television) ref1

K ellogg, Keith ref1

K elly, David ref1

K elly, John F ref1, ref2

K ennedy, John F ref1, ref2, ref3

K ennedy, Robert F, assassination of ref1

K ennedy, Robert F, Jr ref1

K enney, George ref1

K ern, Christian ref1

K erry, John ref1

K eutsch, Frank ref1

K halaf, Rima ref1

K han, Arif ref1

K han, Sadiq ref1

kidnapping schemes ref1

K im J ong-un ref1, ref2

K indle ref1

K ing, Martin Luther ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

K innock, Neil ref1

K inross, Patrick. Ataturk: he Rebirth of a Nation ref1

K irby, Peter A ref1

K issinger, Henry ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

K night, Ben ref1

K night, Christopher and Butler, Alan. Who Built the Moon? ref1

K nights of Malta ref1, ref2

K och, Christof ref1

K onashenkov, Igor ref1

K orean War, US bombing campaign in ref1

K osovo War

Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) ref1

Psychological Operations (PSYOPS) ref1

K ramer, Adam ref1

K rioukov, Dmitri ref1

K ristol, William ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

K ronos (Old Father Time) ref1, ref2, ref3

K u K lux K lan ref1

K uenast, Renate ref1

K uiper Belt ref1

K unkle, Fredrick ref1

K urdi, Aylan ref1

K urds ref1

K urzweil, Ray ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14

K ushner, Charles ref1

K ushner, Jared ref1, ref2, ref3

K yung H ee K im ref1

L

labels

consciousness ref1

forest/twigs ref1

group-think ref1

identity politics ref1

self-identity ref1

Labour Party (UK)

antiSemitism ref1

class ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

unelectable candidates ref1

Lady Gaga ref1

Laibow, Rima E ref1

Lambert, Mike ref1

Lammy, David ref1

Langmuir, Irving ref1

language ref1

Lanza, Robert ref1

Biocentrism ref1, ref2

Lao Tzu ref1

Large H adron Collider ref1, ref2

laser weapons ref1

Lash, John Lamb ref1

Not in H is I mage ref1

Lavrov, Sergey ref1

law enforcement ref1, ref2, ref3

Le Mesurier, James ref1

Le Pen, Marine ref1, ref2

leaders

Brexit ref1

Draco Reptilians ref1

overthrowing leaders ref1

political royalty ref1

League of Nations ref1

Leancă , Lurie ref1

LaV ey, Anton ref1

Lawrence, Jennifer ref1

Lawrence, Thomas Edward ( Lawrence of A rabia) ref1

Lebanon

demonization ref1

war ref1

Lee, Robert E, statue of ref1

Leeds, Jeffrey ref1

left brain

divide and rule ref1

forest/twigs ref1, ref2

new technology as not being new ref1

perceptions ref1

right brain ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

left-wing see also A ntifa; progressives

group-think ref1

right-wing ref1, ref2

Leggeri, Fabrice ref1

Leicester, England ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Lemay, Curtis ref1

Lemnitzer, Lyman L ref1

Lempert, Yael ref1

Lenin, VI ref1, ref2

Lennon, John ref1

Lerner, Barbara ref1

Leveson I nq uiry ref1

Leviathan/Ouroboros ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Levin, Michael ref1

Levine, Hagai ref1

Levinson, Arthur D ref1

LGBTI Q people see sexuality

Li Meng ref1

liberal, defi nition of ref1

Liberal Party (UK) ref1

Liberty ref1

Libet, Benjamin ref1

Libya

Al-Qaeda ref1

France ref1

ISIS ref1

Manchester terrorist attack ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

NATO ref1, ref2

no-fly zones ref1

people’s sovereignty ref1

United Kingdom ref1

United States ref1

war ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1

Lieberman, Avigdor ref1

lifespan ref1, ref2

Lind, William S ref1

Lindsay, Germaine ref1

Lineker, Gary ref1

Little I ce A ge 1 6 th centry-1 9 th century ref1

Little Me ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Llimos, Robert ref1

Lockheed Martin ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Lofven, Stefan ref1

log in/log out ref1

logic, defi nition of ref1

London bombings 7/7 ref1, ref2

Lord Shiva ref1

Los A ngeles Times ref1

love ref1, ref2

freedom, perceptions of ref1

hatred and rage ref1

Infinite Love ref1

mass non-cooperation ref1

projection ref1

self, love for ref1

ultimate power, as ref1

Lovelock, J ames. The Revenge of Gaia ref1

Lower A eons

computer simulation ref1

Demiurge distortion ref1, ref2

Gnosticism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Spirit ref1

Ludwig, Wolfgang ref1

Luke (disciple) ref1

Luncke, Walter ref1

Lyra constellation ref1

M

Maas, Heiko ref1

McCain, John ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

MacDonald, Gordon ref1

McEwan, Ian ref1

McGilchrist, Iain ref1

machines, replacement of humans by ref1

McK enna, Terence ref1

McK inney, Cynthia ref1

McMaster, Herbert Raymond ref1, ref2, ref3

Macmillan, Harold ref1

McNamara, Robert ref1

Macron, Emmanuel ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Maddow, Rachel ref1

madness

awareness ref1

collective madness ref1

faith ref1

Insane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3

medical madness ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2, ref3

political correctness ref1, ref2

religion ref1, ref2

Madonna ref1, ref2

Mafi a ref1

Magna A cademy, Poole, Dorset ref1

Mahabharata ref1

Maher, Bill ref1

Mail on Sunday ref1

Mail Online ref1

Maimane, Mmusi ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3

alternative media ref1, ref2

antiSemitism ref1

Archontic reptilians ref1

censorship ref1, ref2

CIA control ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1

connections ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

context ref1

diversity ref1

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3

Germany ref1

holographs ref1

homeopathy ref1

impartiality ref1

madness ref1, ref2, ref3

moderate extremists ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

New Zealand ref1

ownership ref1, ref2, ref3

paedophiles ref1

perceptions ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

Postage Stamp consensus ref1, ref2

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

progressives ref1

satirical journalists ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

Syria ref1, ref2

United Kingdom ref1

United States ref1

war ref1, ref2

Web ref1, ref2, ref3

Zionism ref1

Malan, Lucio ref1

Malaysia A irlines F light MH 1 7 , disappearance of ref1

Malcolm X , assassination of ref1

Maldives, sea-level rises in ref1

males

attacks on the male ref1

mansplaining ref1

masculinity, end of ref1

white men ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Mali, Dogon tribe in ref1

Malthus, Thomas ref1

Managing the Risks A ssociated with External Speakers. National

Union

of Students (NUS) ref1

Manchester Evening News ref1

Manchester I mperial War Museum ref1

Manchester suicide bombing 2017 ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8, ref9

The Manchurian Candidate (film) ref1

Mandela, Mandla ref1

Mandela, Nelson ref1

Mandelson, Peter ref1

Manhattan Proj ect ref1

Mansour bin Z ayed bin Sultan bin Z ayed bin K halifa A l Nahyan,

Sheikh

ref1

mansplaining ref1

Maritim H otel chain ref1, ref2

Mark (disciple) ref1

market domination ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Markovic, Dusko ref1, ref2

Mars

Earth, near destruction of ref1, ref2, ref3

inhabited, as being ref1

Jupiter, destruction of plant between Mars and ref1

Saturn ref1

Marshall, Bruce ref1

Mary of Teck, Q ueen of

United K ingdom ref1

Marx, Karl ref1

Masot, Shai ref1

mass non-cooperation ref1

The Matrix

black cubes ref1

computer simulation ref1, ref2, ref3

error-correcting codes ref1

frequency walls ref1

pineal glands ref1

The Program ref1

right brain ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

The Matrix ( fi lm) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11, ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17

matter ref1

Matthew (disciple) ref1

Mattis, James ‘Mad Dog’ ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Matus, Don Juan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Maunder, Annie Russell ref1

Maunder, Edward Walter ref1

Maunder Minimum ref1

May, Theresa ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Mayans ref1, ref2

Maynard, Andrew ref1

Mazzini, Giuseppe ref1

Mears, Andrew ref1

media 303–38 see also alternative media; I nternet; mainstream

media;

social media

censorship cabal ref1

CIA ref1, ref2, ref3

conspiracy theories ref1

core perception programming ref1

Deep State ref1

DUMBS (Deep Underground Military Bases) ref1

fact-checkers ref1, ref2, ref3

fake news ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

information hijack ref1

intelligence agencies, control of media by ref1, ref2

monetisation conspiracy ref1, ref2

National Security Agency (NSA) (US) ref1

ownership ref1, ref2

perceptions, holding ref1

provable facts as only a theory ref1

Web ref1, ref2

whistleblowing ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

medicine see drugs; health

Medieval Warm Period 950-1250 ref1

mediums/psychics ref1

megacities ref1

The Men Who Stare at Goats (film) ref1

Menard, Robert ref1

Mengele, Joseph ref1

Mercury, relocation of ref1

Merkel, Angela ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

menstrual cycles ref1

Mesopotamia see also Babylon

Chaldeans ref1

cradle of civilisation ref1

Great Change ref1

virgin mother story, antecedents of ref1

Mesterton, Patrick ref1

Met Office (UK) ref1

Metaphysical Universe ref1

Metaverse technology ref1

MI 5 ref1, ref2

Michaels, Misha ref1, ref2

Michel, Charles ref1

Michelangelo. Creation of Adam ref1

microaggressions ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

micro-apartments ref1

microchips ref1, ref2

Microsoft

computer simulation, world as ref1

cull of humans ref1

HoloLens ref1

market domination ref1, ref2

office assistant (Cortona) ref1

reality ref1

schools ref1

smart cities ref1, ref2

transhumanism ref1

Middle East see new psyche emerging from Middle East

Middle East Eye ref1

Migration Policy I nstitute (MPI) ref1

military see armed forces; military police

military police ref1

Deep State ref1

electronic communications ref1

psychopaths ref1

surveillance ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

United States ref1

weapons ref1

Web ref1

whistleblowing ref1

Miller, Stephen ref1

Milosevic, Slobodan ref1, ref2

mind see Body-Mind; hive mind; human mind; mind control

mind control ref1

ageing ref1

alters ref1

British royal family ref1

Bush family ref1

children ref1

abuse ref1, ref2

City of London ref1

flying reptile crest ref1

Knights Templar ref1

cloud ref1, ref2

dissociative identity disorder ref1, ref2

El-ite networks ref1

encoding ref1

eugenics ref1

5G ref1

genetics ref1

Hollywood ref1

human sacrifices ref1

Jesuits ref1

MKUltra (CIA) ref1

money and finance ref1

Nazis ref1

Nordics ref1

Order of the Dragon ref1

Ouroboros ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

Project Monarch ref1

recovered memories ref1

religion ref1

Reptilians ref1, ref2

Rothschilds ref1, ref2

Satanism ref1, ref2, ref3

terrorism ref1, ref2

trauma-based mind control ref1, ref2

triggers ref1

whistleblowing ref1, ref2

young women, abuse of ref1

Mind to Mind. Shine, Betty ref1

Minecraft ref1

Minority Report (film) ref1

Mirelles, Juan ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

Mirrors of Orion. David, Gary A ref1

MI T Radiation Laboratory ref1

Mitchell, Joni ref1

Mithras ref1

MK Ultra (CIA) ref1, ref2

Mlmad, Shlomo ref1

Mnuchin, Steven ref1

Mö bius strip ref1

moderate extremists ref1

leaders, overthrowing ref1

Left-Right ref1

mainstream media ref1

rigged systems ref1

Russia ref1

scandals ref1

unelectable candidates ref1

Web ref1

Modi, Narendra ref1

Moloch/Molech ref1

Le Monde ref1

money and fi nance

Archontic control of governments ref1

Archontic reptilian bloodlines ref1, ref2

banking cartels ref1

booms and busts ref1

central banks ref1

climate change ref1, ref2

collective dependency ref1

credit ref1

currency Archontic Reptilians ref1

hoax ref1

interest-free currency ref1

one global currency ref1

debt as control ref1

financial crisis of 2008 ref1

fractional reserve lending ref1

government-established investment banks ref1

hoax ref1

interest ref1, ref2, ref3

mind control ref1

monetisation conspiracy ref1, ref2

money hoax ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

politicians ref1

private banks ref1

Rothschilds ref1

Saudi Arabia and terrorist financing ref1

The System ref1

tax ref1, ref2, ref3

terrorism ref1

understanding the money system ref1

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

war ref1

Web ref1

Monsanto ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Moon ref1

ancients ref1

Archontic force ref1

Archontic Reptilians ref1

arrival of the Moon ref1, ref2

artificial, as ref1

beams 159= 68

behaviour, effects on human ref1

broadcast dish, Moon as ref1

buildings/constructions, advanced ref1

calendars ref1

cataclysmic events ref1

CHANI Project ref1, ref2

colours ref1

command centre, as ref1

communication ref1

computer simulation ref1, ref2, ref3

Death Star (Star Wars) analogy ref1

Easter ref1, ref2

egg symbolism ref1

electromagnetism ref1

existence, explanations for ref1

frequency bands ref1

Gnostics ref1

Great Flood ref1

hollow, Moon a being ref1

holograph, Moon as a ref1

homones ref1

human control ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Jewish Passover ref1

Kuiper Belt ref1

Matrix information ref1, ref2

menstrual cycles ref1

myths and legends ref1

natural, as not being ref1

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

ridicule ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2, ref3

size of the Moon ref1

time, perception of ref1

Vedic astrology ref1

waveforms ref1

water ref1

Whack and Double-Whack theories ref1

Moons, Myths and Men. Bellamy, Hans Schindler ref1

Moore, Michael ref1

Morgan, Robin ref1, ref2

Morgellons or chemtrail disease ref1, ref2

Archontic inversion ref1

crystalline silica ref1

piezoelectricity (pressing electricity) ref1

self-replication ref1

Morj ani, Anita. Dying to be Me ref1

Mormon Church ref1

Mosley, Max ref1

Mosley, Oswald ref1

Mossad ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Mountbatten, Louis (Lord Mountbatten) ref1

mountains, cities inside ref1

Mozces tribe ref1

Mpalalatsani (Scatterer of Life) (Betelgeuse), red star called ref1

MSNBC ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Mubarak, Hosni ref1

Mueller, Robert ref1

Muhammad (the Prophet) ref1, ref2, ref3

Muj ahedeen ref1, ref2

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

asylum seekers ref1, ref2

Australia ref1

awareness ref1

border controls, removal of ref1

Brexit ref1, ref2, ref3

class ref1

colonialism ref1

crimes ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

emotion, manipulation of ref1

European Union ref1, ref2

far right ref1

feminists ref1, ref2

financing ref1

France ref1, ref2

Germany ref1, ref2, ref3

Grenfell Tower Tragedy, London ref1

grooming gangs ref1

honour killings ref1, ref2

Hungary ref1

identity politics ref1

Islamophobia ref1, ref2

IsraAID ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2, ref3

Italy ref1

Labour Party ref1, ref2

Libya ref1

mainstream media ref1

mass immigration ref1

migrant routes ref1

NGOs ref1, ref2, ref3

organised crisis ref1

parallel societies ref1, ref2

philanthropy ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

progressives ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

psychopaths ref1, ref2, ref3

racism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

refugees and immigrants, difference between ref1

sexual offences ref1, ref2, ref3

Spain ref1

sperm counts ref1

state-sponsored Islamic terrorism ref1

Sweden ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Syria ref1

terrorism ref1

traffickers ref1

trigger warnings ref1

United Kingdom ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

United States ref1, ref2

virtue signalling ref1, ref2

Wahhabism/Sharia law ref1

Web ref1, ref2

white race, targeting of ref1, ref2

women ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Murdoch, James ref1

Murdoch, Rupert ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Murphy, Eddie ref1, ref2

Murray, Jenni ref1

Musk, Elon ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Muslims see I slam

Mussolini, Benito ref1

Mutwa, Credo ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Reptilian A genda (video) ref1

Song of the Stars ref1

Myers, Kevin ref1

Mystery schools ref1

Mzungu ref1

N

Nag H ammadi texts ref1, ref2

Archontic Reptilians ref1

astrology ref1

Bruce Codex ref1, ref2

Dialogue of the Saviour ref1

fate and time ref1

Gospel of Philip ref1

Gospel of Truth ref1

Greys ref1

heart chakra ref1

hell, reality as ref1

inversion ref1

Origin of the World manuscript ref1, ref2

Tripartite Tractate ref1, ref2

Zostrianos ref1

nanotechnologies

artificial intelligence ref1

Borg concept ref1

chemtrails ref1, ref2

cloud ref1

crystalline, as ref1

freeze-dried blood cells in environment ref1

hive mind ref1

identity politics ref1

Morgellons or chemtrail disease ref1, ref2

nanobots ref1

nanoparticles ref1

nanoprobes (smart dust) ref1, ref2, ref3

radiation ref1

narcissism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

NA SA ( National A eronautics and Space A dministration) ref1, ref2,

ref3,

ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12

National H ealth Service (NHS) (UK) ref1

National Security A gency (NSA) (US) ref1, ref2

National Union of Students ( NUS) . Managing the Risks Associated

with

External Speakers ref1

native peoples see indigenous people

NA TO ( North A tlantic Treaty Organization) ref1

Afghanistan ref1

Albania ref1

CIA ref1

EU, absorption of countries into ref1

former Yugoslavia, breakup of ref1

Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) ref1

Libya ref1, ref2

Macedonia ref1

Russia ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

Security Council (UN) ref1

Serbia bombing of Belgrade ref1, ref2

EU membership ref1

Soviet Union, breakup of ref1

Syria ref1, ref2, ref3

terrorism ref1

Totalitarian Tiptoe ref1

UN peacekeeping operations ref1

United Kingdom ref1

United States ref1

uranium, use of depleted ref1

Web ref1

world government ref1

natural world ref1

Naturalnews ref1

nature, laws of ref1

Nature’s Scientifi c Reports ref1

Navalny, Alexei ref1

Nazi Germany

advanced knowledge given to Nazis ref1

Antarctica, Draco Reptilian base under ref1

Black Sun ref1

mind control ref1

MKUltra ref1

Reichstag fire ref1

NBC Universal ref1

near-death experiences

aeons ref1

awareness ref1, ref2

Greys ref1

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

space ref1

Neather, Andrew ref1

Neocons ref1

China ref1

Iran-Iraq war ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

Presidential election 2016 ref1

Project for the New American Century (PNAC) ref1, ref2

regime change ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Russia ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Sabbatean Frankists ref1, ref2

September ref1, 2001, attacks ref2

Syria ref1, ref2

war ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Nephilaā ref1

Nephilim (Fallen Ones) ref1

Netanyahu, Benjamin ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9,

ref10

Neuralink ref1, ref2

New A ge movement ref1, ref2

new psyche emerging from Middle East

Archon visitations ref1, ref2

class ref1, ref2

colonial invasions ref1

expansion ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

five senses ref1

Roman Church ref1

Satanism ref1

software El-ite ref1

synthetic humans ref1

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

New Scientist ref1, ref2

new technology as not being

new ref1

New Tricks ref1

New World Order ref1

New Y ork Observer ref1

New Y ork Times ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

new you ref1

New Z ealand ref1

News of the World ref1

Newspunch.com ref1, ref2

Newspeak ref1

Newton, Isaac ref1, ref2

Nexus magazine ref1

nihilism ref1, ref2

Nimrod ref1, ref2

Nineteen-Eighty-F our. Orwell, George ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6,

ref7

No Man’s Sky (video game) ref1

Nobel, Alfred ref1

Nobel Peace Prize ref1, ref2

Nolan, Stephen ref1

Nommo, visitations from ref1

nonexistence ref1

non-governmental organisations ( NGOs) ref1, ref2, ref3

nonhuman entities ref1 see also A rchon visitations; A rchontic

Reptilians; Greys

inversion ref1

Kuiper Belt ref1

Nephilim (Fallen Ones) ref1

Upper Aeons ref1

Nordics ref1, ref2. ref3

North A tlantic Treaty Organization see NA TO

North K orea

China ref1

Korean War, US bombing campaign against NK in ref1

mainstream media ref1

Neocons ref1

regime change ref1

THAAD missile system ref1, ref2

United States ref1, ref2

NorthWest F riends of I srael ref1

Le Nouvel Observateur ref1

NoviDen ref1

nuclear power

anti-nuclear missile interception technology ref1

Fukushima nuclear disaster ref1, ref2

Iran ref1, ref2

Israel/Palestine ref1

Rothschilds ref1

weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Nuland, Victoria ref1

numbers

alien life as physics and numbers ref1

Archons ref1

Balmoral, symbol of ref1

Big Bang ref1

buildings ref1

CERN ref1

consciousness ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1

cubes ref1

decoding ref1

digital holograms ref1

ego/Phantom Self ref1

Fibonacci number sequence ref1

fractal patterns ref1

freemasons ref1

frequency bands ref1, ref2

genetic code ref1

Google ref1

Magic Square of Saturn ref1

natural world ref1

New Jerusalem in Revelations ref1, ref2

Number of the Beast ref1

numerology ref1, ref2

occult ref1

Satanists ref1

Saturn ref1

symmetrical maths ref1

symbolism ref1

Temple of Solomon ref1

waveform information ref1

Nuremberg trials ref1

Nye, Bill ref1

O

Ó Colmáin, Gearó id ref1

Obama, Barack ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17, ref18, ref19, ref20

Obamacare ref1

Oborne, Peter ref1

O’Brien, Cathy ref1

Trance-Formation of America ref1, ref2, ref3

The Observer ref1

Observer Effect ref1, ref2

ocean warming ref1

Oculus ref1

OECD ref1, ref2

oestrogen ref1, ref2

office assistants ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Okundaye, Jason Osamede ref1

Oldspeak ref1, ref2

Oliver, Jon ref1

Omidyar Network ref1

Omidyar, Pierre ref1

one big program ref1

change of mind ref1

electromagnetic distortion ref1

end of the world ref1

Holographic universe ref1

Jupiter ref1

Mars ref1, ref2

Moon ref1, ref2, ref3

Orion ref1

the rewire ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

Sun, changing position of ref1

transformation of the human psyche ref1

Venus ref1, ref2, ref3

war ref1

Oneness ref1

open minds ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Operation Gladio ref1

Operation Northwoods ref1, ref2

opposames ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Opus Dei ref1, ref2

Orban, Viktor ref1

O’Reilly, Bill ref1

organic stage of development, briefness of ref1

Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) ref1

organised crisis ref1

The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral

Mind.

Jaynes, Julian ref1

Orion ref1

Aztecs ref1

Bellatrix (female warrior) ref1

buildings/constructions, advanced ref1

communication ref1

creation ref1

Draco Reptilians ref1

Great Nebula ref1

Greys ref1

Hopi people, Arizona ref1

The Hunter ref1

information system ref1

Mpalalatsani (Scatterer of Life) (Betelgeuse), red star called ref1

Nephilaā ref1

Orion Queen ref1, ref2

Orion’s Belt ref1

Osiris, Egyptians communicating with ref1

pyramids, building the ref1

red and blue in politics, use of ref1

Rigel (Beta Orionis)

(blue supergiant) ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Saturn-Moon-Orion Matrix ref1

shepherd, as ref1

Sirius ref1, ref2

Trapezium or Orion Trapezium Cluster ref1

Ortega, Amancio ref1

Orwell, George ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

Nineteen-Eighty-Four ref11, ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17

oscillation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Osho ref1, ref2

Ottoman Empire ref1, ref2

Our Mathematical Universe. Tegmark, Max ref1, ref2

Ouroboros/Leviathan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

out-of-body experiences ref1

Ovid ref1

Owl of Saturn ref1

astrology ref1

Baal ref1

Bohemian Grove ref1

Capitol Building, owl symbolism in road layout of ref1

children, sacrifice of ref1

Cremation of Care ref1

Moloch/Molech ref1

symbolism ref1

Trapezoid ref1

Washington DC street plan, pentagrams in ref1

ownership

body ref1

media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

seeds ref1

world, of the ref1

ozone layer ref1

P

paedophiles ref1

Archontic reptilians ref1

Belgium ref1

black-eyed people ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

dark web ref1

energy ref1

Gnostics ref1

Jersey ref1

mainstream media ref1

migrant children ref1

Pizzagate ref1

public inquiry ref1

Roman Church ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

Satanism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Savile scandal ref1, ref2

state ref1

trafficking ref1

United States ref1

Page, Larry ref1, ref2, ref3

Pai, Ajit ref1

Paideia ref1

Paine, Thomas ref1

Paj aron, Javier ref1

Pakistan

Pakistan InterServices Intelligence (ISI) ref1, ref2

Sabbatean Frankist Dönmeh Islamic extremists ref1

social media ref1

Palantir Technologies ref1

Palestine see I srael/Palestine

Palin, Sarah ref1

palm readers ref1

Pan ref1, ref2

paranormal ref1

Body-Mind ref1

divination, art of ref1

frequencies ref1

ghosts ref1, ref2

inversions ref1

normal ref1

perceptions ref1

psychics and mediums ref1

ridicule ref1, ref2

parasites ref1, ref2

parents

child abuse, indoctrination into religion as ref1, ref2

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

indoctrination into religion ref1, ref2, ref3

perceptions ref1, ref2

Park, Kevin ref1

Pascal, Blaise ref1

Pasha, Ayyub Sabri ref1

Passio, Mark ref1, ref2

Patch, Anthony ref1

patents ref1

patriotism ref1

Peacock, Matt ref1

Peccei, Aurelio ref1

Pegasus Global H oldings ( PGH ) ref1

Pekgul, Nalin ref1

Pence, Mike ref1

Pendragon, Uther ref1

pensions ref1

The Perception Deception. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6,

ref7,

ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16

perceptions see also forest/twigs; freedom, perceptions of;

perceptions,

controlling

decoding ref1

health ref1

holographic illusions ref1

life expectancy ref1

manipulation ref1

media ref1, ref2

mirror, life as a ref1

Observer Effect ref1

paranormal ref1

programming ref1

reality ref1, ref2

revolution ref1

subconscious ref1

perceptions, controlling ref1

alternative media ref1

Archontic reptilians ref1, ref2, ref3

attention, hijacking ref1

awareness ref1

behaviour ref1

carrot and stick technique of rewards and punishment ref1, ref2

child-stealing state ref1, ref2

core perception programming ref1

decoding ref1

Deep State ref1

divide and rule ref1

faith ref1

familiarity ref1, ref2, ref3

five senses ref1, ref2

Frankfurt School ref1, ref2

frequencies ref1

God program ref1

holographic prisons ref1

home schooling ref1

hybrid El-ite ref1

left brain ref1

mainstream media ref1

money ref1, ref2

Deep State ref1

exams ref1

The Program ref1, ref2

religion ref1

schools ref1, ref2

the state ref1

peer pressure ref1, ref2

perceptual motion ref1

Postage Stamp Consensus ref1, ref2

previous generations, perceptual programming by ref1

The Program ref1

programmed programming ref1

programming themselves, people as ref1

quantum field ref1

religion ref1

schools ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

success, push for ref1

transhumanism ref1

trauma-based mind control ref1

universities and colleges ref1, ref2, ref3

‘who am I’ ref1

Perle, Richard ref1, ref2, ref3

Perry, Katy ref1, ref2

Persinger, Michael A ref1

personal assistants ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Peru ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Petraeus, David ref1, ref2

Pettitt, Adam ref1

Phantom Self. Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

pheromones ref1

Philip, Duke of Edinburgh ( Prince Philip) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

phones, working of ref1

Physical Review Letters ref1

physics

alien life, as ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1

frequencies ref1

law of physics ref1

Pierce, Andrew ref1

piezoelectricity ( pressing electricity) ref1

Pike, Albert ref1, ref2

Pilger, John ref1

pilotless helicopters ref1

pilotless passenger aircraft ref1

Pincus, David ref1

Pine Gap underground base, A lice Springs ref1

Pinheiro, Paulo Sergio ref1

pixels ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Pizzagate ref1

placebo ref1

planets and stars as information fi elds ref1

Planned Parenthood ref1, ref2

plants see trees and plants

plastics ref1

Plato ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Pleaides ref1

Plutarch ref1

Podesta, John ref1

Poe, Edgar A llen ref1

Pol Pot ref1

police

Dubai police force, robots in ref1

FBI ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

military police ref1

police-military control system ref1, ref2, ref3

political correctness ( PC) ref1

academia ref1, ref2

alternative comedians ref1

alternative media ref1

Antifa (antifascism) ref1

anti-racist racism ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

Archontic hierarchy ref1

Australia ref1, ref2

bias, good and bad ref1

Big Brother ref1, ref2, ref3

Brexit ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

children ref1

colonialism ref1, ref2

comedy ref1

culture ref1

deplatforming ref1

discrimination ref1, ref2, ref3

diversity ref1

El-ite ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

ethnic stereotyping ref1

fake news ref1

fascism ref1

fear ref1, ref2

feminism ref1, ref2, ref3

freedom of expression ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

gender ref1, ref2

hate speech ref1, ref2

health and safety risk assessments ref1

identity politics ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1, ref2

label consciousness ref1

linguistic policing ref1, ref2

madness ref1, ref2

mainstream media ref1, ref2

majority culture ref1

manufactured separation ref1

medicalisation of reading ref1

mental health conditions ref1

microaggressions ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

mind control ref1, ref2

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

nanny state ref1

Newspeak ref1

offended, choosing to be ref1

Oldspeak ref1, ref2

positive discrimination ref1

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

The Program ref1, ref2

progressives ref1, ref2, ref3

anti-family agenda ref1

Antifa (antifascism) ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

definition ref1

mainstream media ref1

Nazi Germany ref1

new Establishment ref1, ref2

Postage Stamp

consensus ref1

students ref1

triggers ref1

voting age ref1

psychiatric drugs ref1

psychological warfare ref1

pyramid ref1

racism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

refugees and migrants, difference between ref1

religion ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

reporting on each other ref1

Ritalin ref1

Rothschilds ref1

safe spaces ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

schools ref1

self-identity ref1, ref2, ref3

sensitivity readers in publishing houses ref1

sexuality ref1, ref2, ref3

snowflakes ref1, ref2, ref3

students ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Sweden ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

therapy culture ref1

totalitarianism ref1

transgender persons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

trigger warnings ref1, ref2, ref3

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

victims ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

virtue signalling ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Web ref1, ref2

white guilt ref1

white men ref1, ref2

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

politicians

antiSemitism ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

money ref1

political parties ref1

royalty ref1

Satanism ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

unelectable candidates ref1

United Kingdom ref1

politics see also identity politics; political correctness ( PC) ;

politicians

analysts ref1

choice ref1

distraction, as ref1

red and blue in politics, use of ref1

speech, regulation of political ref1

Pollan, Michael ref1

Pompeo, Mike ref1

Poponin, Vladimir ref1

Popp, Fritz-Albert ref1

populism ref1

Poroshenko, Petro ref1

possibilities and probabilities ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Postage Stamp consensus

artificial intelligence ref1

cancer, negative thoughts as causing ref1

censorship ref1

alternative media ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2

mirror, life as a ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

religion ref1

Postol, Theodore ref1

Potter, Melody Milam ref1

poverty ref1

Powell, Colin ref1, ref2

Poynter I nstitute for Media Studies ref1

prediction of public responses ref1

predictive programming ref1

pre-emptive programming ref1

Press, Frank ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution ( PRS) ref1

censorship ref1

centralisation of power and police states ref1

Facebook behaviour-changing experiments ref1

fear ref1

freedom of expression ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1

mainstream media, control of ref1

No-Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

outcomes ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3, ref4

Syria ref1

terrorism ref1

Totalitarian Tiptoe technique ref1, ref2, ref3

triggers ref1

weapons of mass destruction in Iraq ref1

Web ref1

who benefits ref1

programming see perceptions, controlling

progressives see also A ntifa

academia ref1

banking ref1

Brexit ref1, ref2, ref3

censorship ref1, ref2

climate change ref1, ref2, ref3

diversity ref1

divide and rule ref1

fascism ref1

France ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

group-think ref1

hate ref1, ref2, ref3

hive minds ref1

identity politics ref1

immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

liberal, definition of ref1

mainstream media ref1

mindset ref1

narcissism ref1

new Establishment ref1, ref2

opposames ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3

populism ref1

Provisional Progressives ref1, ref2, ref3

racism ref1

religion ref1

self-identity ref1

sponge-minds and free minds ref1

students ref1, ref2

Sweden, removal of border controls in ref1

Syria ref1

Proj ect Baseline ref1

Proj ect Blue Beam ref1

Proj ect for the New A merican Century ( PNA C) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

ref5

Proj ect Paperclip ref1

Proof of H eaven. Alexander, Eben ref1

propaganda ref1, ref2

Propaganda. Bernays, Edward ref1

Proselenes ref1

Protestants ref1, ref2

protests

Charlottesville, Virginia, violence at protests in ref1

divisions ref1, ref2

hatred and rage ref1

‘I Have a Dream’ speech ref1

virtue signalling ref1

Washington protest, funding of ref1

PRS see Problem-Reaction-Solution ( PRS)

psychic mediums ref1, ref2

psychoactive states ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Psychological Operations ( PSY OPS) ref1

psychopaths

Draco Reptilians ref1

Greys ref1

group-think ref1

heart, power of the ref1

military police ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3

racial groups ref1

religious groups ref1

social media ref1

software El-ite ref1

terrorism ref1, ref2

United States ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3

psychosomatic illness ref1

purgatory ref1

Putin, Vladimir ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

pyramids, building the ref1

psychiatric drugs ref1

Q

Q -Tel ref1

q uantum computers

Amazon ref1

definition ref1

5G ref1

Google ref1, ref2

Internet of Things ref1

Observer Effect ref1

possibility and probability, quantum field of ref1

synthetic humans ref1, ref2

Universe, as ref1

Wi-Fi ref1

q uantum theory see also q uantum computers

counterintuitive, as ref1

divide and rule ref1

evolution ref1

gravity, theory of ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

indigenous people ref1

out-of-body experiences ref1

past, changing the ref1

perceptions ref1

physics and numbers, alien life as ref1

possibilities and probabilities ref1, ref2

seers and shamans ref1

waveforms ref1

Q atar ref1, ref2

Q uiche Maya of Guatemala ref1

R

Ra ref1

racism

anti-racist racism ref1, ref2, ref3

apartheid ref1, ref2

Black Lives Matter (BLM) ref1, ref2

Brexit ref1

caste system ref1

censorship ref1

empathy ref1

Frankfurt School ref1

immigrants ref1

Infinite Possibility ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3

offences, creation of ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

power, giving ref1

progressives ref1

reverse racism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

self-identity ref1

victims ref1

virtue signalling ref1, ref2

white guilt ref1

radiation

HAARP ref1, ref2

health ref1, ref2, ref3

MIT Radiation Laboratory ref1

synthetic humans ref1

rage ref1

Raggi, Virginia ref1

rainbow ref1

Rama, Edi ref1, ref2

Ramadhan F oundation ref1, ref2

Ramos, Jorge ref1

Rand Corporation. Unfolding the Future of the Long War ref1

Rappoport, Jon ref1

Rathj e, Jan ref1

rationality

closed mind ref1

rational, definition of ref1

Ravel, Ann M ref1

Ravitch, Diane ref1

Raytheon ref1, ref2

A l Razzouq i, Khalid Nasser ref1

Reagan, Ronald ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

reality

Archons ref1, ref2

Biggest Need-to-Know ref1

check ref1

electromagnetism ref1

encoding/decoding ref1

energy ref1

experienced reality ref1

hell ref1

holographs ref1, ref2, ref3

inversion ref1, ref2

Mainstream Everything ref1

material reality ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2

physical reality ref1, ref2, ref3

quantum physics ref1, ref2

scientific orthodoxy ref1

shamans ref1

solid, physical world ref1

Realms of Down here ref1

reason, defi nition of ref1

receivers-transmitters

brain as receiver ref1

crystals ref1

DNA ref1, ref2

human skin as receiver-transmitter ref1

naontechnologies ref1

recovered memories ref1

Redouane, Rachid ref1

Reed, Bernard ref1

Rees, Martin ref1

regime changes ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

reincarnation

Archons ref1, ref2

Demiurge ref1

eastern religions ref1

Lower aeons ref1

New Age religions ref1

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

Saturn ref1

Soul ref1

Reinfeldt, Fredrik ref1

Reinhard, Friedemann ref1

religion ref1 see also Christianity; I slam; J ews/J udaism

basically correct, as ref1

blasphemy ref1, ref2, ref3

the book ref1

Buddhism ref1

censorship ref1

certainty ref1

child abuse ref1

choice ref1

chosen people ref1

chronic myopia ref1

climate change ref1

empathy ref1

extremism ref1, ref2

Facebook as replacing religion ref1

faith ref1, ref2

fish-god religions ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

God program ref1

Hinduism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

hoaxes ref1

illusion ref1

indoctrination into religion ref1, ref2, ref3

infidels ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

insanity ref1

Kabbalah ref1

Little Me ref1

mind control ref1

Mormons ref1

parents, indoctrination into religion by ref1, ref2

pennies dropping ref1

perceptual control ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Postage Stamp consensus ref1

priests/clerics ref1, ref2

progressives ref1

pseudo-randomness or opposames ref1, ref2

quantum mechanics ref1

reincarnation ref1

repetition ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

self-identity ref1

Smart phones ref1

software El-ite ref1

symbols ref1

Truth Vibrations ref1

victims ref1

Wahhabi Islam ref1

Remember Who Y ou A re. Icke, David ref1, ref2

Renzi, Matteo ref1, ref2

repetition ref1

Reporters without Borders ref1

reptilian humans

Archon visitations ref1

brain ref1

five senses ref1

genetic manipulation ref1

human behaviour ref1

pheromones ref1

rituals ref1

Saturnian astrology ref1

survival, threats to ref1

reptilians see also A rchontic

Reptilians; Draco Reptilians mind control ref1, ref2

reptilian humans ref1

synthetic humans ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

reputation ref1

Revisionist Z ionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Responsibility 2 Protection ( R2 P) (UN) ref1

revolutions, manipulation of people’s ref1

Rhodes, Cecil ref1

Rich, Seth ref1

Richie Allen radio show ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

ridicule

Archon visitations ref1, ref2

awareness ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

Icke, David ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

heart versus head conflict ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

offended, choosing to be ref1

university degrees ref1

new you ref1

Rigel ( Beta Orionis) ( blue supergiant) ref1

rigged systems ref1, ref2

right brain ref1, ref2

right-wing see also fascists

Antifa ref1

extremists ref1

left-wing ref1, ref2

opposames ref1

Ring-Pass-Not ref1, ref2, ref3

Ringmakers of Saturn. Bergrun, Norman ref1

Riordan, Rick ref1

Ritalin ref1, ref2

Robberson, Jon ref1, ref2

Robertson, Gregor ref1

robots

Amazon ref1

Dubai police force, robots in ref1

employment ref1, ref2

fast food industry ref1

Google ref1

journalists, replacement of ref1

killer robots ref1

sex robots ref1

Strong AI ref1

Wikipedia for Robots ref1

Robots’ Rebellion. Icke, David ref1

Rockefeller, David ref1, ref2

Rockefeller, JD ref1, ref2

Rockefeller, Nelson ref1

Rockefeller, Nick ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Rockefellers ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

climate change ref1, ref2

feminist movement ref1

Owl of Saturn ref1

ownership of the world ref1

terrorism ref1

weather, control of the ref1

Roman Church

Africa and Americas, suppression of people in ref1

creation ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

freedom, perceptions of ref1

Gnosticism ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East ref1

Orion ref1

paedophiles ref1

purgatory ref1

Romans

Allyon/Abaddon ref1

black cubes ref1

Mithras ref1

Saturnalia ref1

software El-ite ref1

Romney, Mitt ref1

Roose, Kevin ref1

Roosevelt, Teddy ref1

Rose, Charlie ref1

Rosin, Katin ref1

Ross, Wilbur ref1, ref2

Rostami, Amir ref1

Roswell incident, New Mexico ref1

Rothschild, Louis de ref1

Rothschild, Mayer Amstel ref1

Rothschild, Nathan ref1

Rothschild, Philippine de ref1

Rothschild, Phillip Eugene de ref1

Rothschild, Walter ref1

Rothschilds ref1, ref2, ref3

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

black cubes ref1

bloodlines ref1

change of name ref1

Christianity, control of ref1

climate change ref1

Demiurge ref1

freemasons, murder of pope by ref1

frequency bands ref1

genetics ref1

hate speech ref1

incest ref1

ISIS ref1

mind control ref1

money ref1

nuclear power ref1

Owl of Saturn ref1

ownership of the world ref1

political correctness ref1

red hexagram ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

Satanism ref1

secret societies ref1

social workers ref1

Royal I nstitute of I nternational A ffairs ref1

royalty see also British royal family

Draco Reptilians ref1

financial/military aristocracy ref1

political royalty Satanism Satanism ref1

snakes or serpents ref1

software El-ite ref1

Rubin, Robert ref1

Rudd, Amber ref1

Rudin, Ernst ref1

Rumi ref1, ref2

Rumsfeld, Donald ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

runes ref1

Russia

anti-nuclear missile interception technology ref1

armed forces ref1

Deep State ref1

demonization ref1, ref2

fake news ref1, ref2

France ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

Mafia ref1

military spending ref1

NATO ref1

Neocons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

sanctions ref1

social media, use of ref1

Soviet Union, breakup of ref1

Syria ref1, ref2, ref3

US presidential election, fixing ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

United States ref1, ref2

war ref1, ref2, ref3

Web ref1

White Helmets ref1

Russia Today ( RT) ref1, ref2

Russo, Aaron ref1, ref2, ref3

Rwanda, Tutsis and Hutus in ref1

Ryan, Joan ref1

Rycroft, Matthew ref1

S

Saakashvili, Mikheil ref1

Sabbatean F rankism

Brexit ref1

Church of Babylon ref1

Dönmeh Islamic extremists ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

ISIS ref1

neocons ref1, ref2

paedophiles ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

war ref1

Zionism ref1

sacrifi ces ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Saddam H ussein ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

safe spaces ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Sagan, Carl ref1, ref2

The Dragons of Eden ref1

Sagar, Mark ref1

Sahlin, Mona ref1

Saksaywaman, Peru ref1

San F rancisco Examiner ref1

Sand, Shlomo. The Invention of the Jewish People ref1

Sandberg, Sheryl ref1

Sanders, Bernie ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Sanskrit ref1, ref2

Sarkozy, Nicolas ref1, ref2

Satanism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

British Royal Family ref1

cannibalism ref1

child abuse ref1

Church of Babylon ref1

computer simulation ref1

Dark Occult ref1

Demiurge ref1

‘Do What Thou Wilt’ ref1

fascism ref1

frequencies ref1

gods ref1

Hollywood ref1

human sacrifice ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

Insane God of the Limitless Chaos ref1

ISIS ref1

Light Occult ref1

mind control ref1, ref2, ref3

money ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East ref1

numbers ref1

paedophilia ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

politicians ref1

psychopaths ref1

rituals ref1

Rothschilds ref1

sacrifices ref1, ref2

Santa ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

secret societies ref1

Skull and Bones ref1

software El-ite ref1

state ref1

symbolism ref1

Temple of Set ref1

United States ref1, ref2

Web ref1

satanic fi re rituals ref1

satellites

artificial intelligence ref1

assimilation ref1, ref2

CubeSats ref1

FCC ref1

global corporations ref1

Google ref1

International Space Station ref1

micro-satellites ref1

military spy satellites ref1

synthetic humans ref1

surveillance ref1

Wi-Fi ref1

satirical j ournalists ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2

all-seeing eye ref1, ref2, ref3

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

astrology ref1, ref2

black cubes ref1, ref2

buildings/constructions, advanced ref1

Cassini mission, photos taken by ref1, ref2

cataclysmic events ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

CERN ref1

chemtrails ref1

Child of Orion ref1

communication ref1, ref2

Demiurge/Yaldabaoth ref1

dwarf star, Saturn as a ref1

Earth ref1

electromagnetism ref1, ref2

end of the world ref1

extraterrestrial visits ref1

fake reality or Matrix ref1

fall of Saturn ref1

frequency bands ref1, ref2

Goat-god Pan ref1, ref2

Golden Age ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Greater Malefic ref1

Grim Reaper ref1

hammer and sickle symbol ref1, ref2

Helios ref1

hexagons ref1

Hindu Vedic astrology ref1

Judaism, Saturn-day as holy day in ref1

Jupiter, conflict with ref1

Magic Square of Saturn ref1

Mars ref1

Moon ref1, ref2, ref3

Nimrod ref1

numbers ref1

orbit, changes in ref1

Orion ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

reincarnation ref1

Ring-Pass-Not concept ref1

rings ref1, ref2

ancients ref1, ref2

Archons ref1

broadcasting ref1

colour changes ref1

electromagnetism ref1, ref2, ref3

Hidden Hand ref1

not natural, as ref1

Ring-Pass-Not concept ref1

ringmakers ref1

sound ref1

Uranus, acquisition of rings by ref1

without ref1, ref2

Roman Empire ref1

Satanists ref1

Saturnalia ref1, ref2

scalar field ref1

Schumann Cavity Resonance ref1

space and time, God of ref1

Space Fence ref1

Star of David hexagram ref1

Sun ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

surveillance ref1

symbolism ref1, ref2

transformation ref1, ref2

twin sun system ref1

Venus ref1, ref2

Voyager missions, photos taken by ref1

war ref1

The Saturn Myth. Talbott, David ref1

al-Saud, Khalid Bin Farhan, Prince of Saudi A rabia ref1

al-Saud, Salman bin Abdulaziz, K ing of Saudi A rabia ref1, ref2, ref3

Saudi A rabia

arms sales ref1, ref2

Canada ref1

Clinton, Hillary, as funding ref1

defection ref1

Dönmeh Saudi dynasty ref1

Egypt, securing ownership of Sanafir Island from ref1

empathy ref1

France ref1

human rights ref1

Iran (Shia), conflict with ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

ISIS ref1, ref2, ref3

NATO ref1

Sabbatean Frankist Dönmeh Islamic extremists ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3, ref4

terrorism ref1, ref2

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

United States ref1

Wahhabism ref1, ref2, ref3

war ref1

women, treatment of ref1

Yemen ref1, ref2

Savile, Jimmy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

scalar connection ref1

climate change ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1

dark matter/energy ref1

electrical supply systems ref1

energy ref1

5G ref1

holographic reality ref1

Saturn ref1

scalar field ref1

scalar, meaning of ref1

synthetic humans ref1

time, as beyond ref1

waveform reality ref1

weather, control of the ref1

Scharf, Caleb ref1, ref2

Schnare, David ref1

Schiffer, Eric ref1

Schleicher, Andreas ref1

Schmidt, Eric ref1, ref2

Schofi eld, Phillip ref1

Scholem, Gershom ref1

schools and education see also universities and colleges

abuse, schools as ref1

Body-Alcatraz ref1

carrot and stick technique of rewards and punishment ref1

climate change ref1, ref2

computerisation ref1

‘education’, use of term ref1

exams ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

familiarity ref1, ref2

health and safety ref1

hoax, as ref1

holidays in term–time, fines for taking children on ref1

home schooling ref1

homework ref1

mainstream education ref1

meditation ref1

NOW ref1

parents ref1, ref2

perceptions ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Postage Stamp Consensus ref1

private schools ref1

punishments ref1, ref2

resistors (parents), targeting of ref1

rules are rules ref1

security and surveillance ref1

smartphones ref1

sporting competition ref1

standardisation ref1

state, child stealing by the ref1, ref2

The System ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

training manual for brainwashing ref1

transgender persons ref1

uniforms ref1

unstructured play ref1

US Education Board ref1

video games ref1

Schopenhauer, Arthur ref1

Schumann Cavity Resonance (SCR) ref1

Schumann, Winfried Otto ref1

Schwarz, David ref1

Schwarzenegger, Arnold ref1

Science Channel ref1

Scientifi c A merican ref1, ref2

science

orthodoxy ref1

physics and numbers, alien life as ref1

physics, law of ref1

scientific mind ref1

scientism ref1, ref2

Scotland

EU ref1

named person scheme ref1

Scott, Robert ref1

Scottish National Party ( SNP) ref1

Seal, Barry ref1

Seal of Solomon ref1

Search for I nternatonal Terrorist Entities ( SI TE) I ntelligence Group

ref1

Second Life ref1

Secret Teachings of A ll A ges. Hall, Manly P ref1 s security cameras,

malfunctioning of ref1

security clearances ref1

Security Council ( UN)

China ref1

France ref1

NATO ref1

permanent members ref1

Russia ref1

Totalitarian Tiptoe ref1

United Kingdom ref1

United States ref1

world government ref1

Segatori, Adriano ref1

Seldon, Anthony ref1

Selected by Extraterrestrials: My life in the top secret world of UF Os,

think-tanks and Nordic secretaries. Tompkins, William ref1

self-identity ref1

apartness ref1

class ref1

divide and rule ref1

five senses ref1

forest/twigs ref1

frequencies ref1

holographs ref1

llness, negative thoughts as causing ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1, ref2

Infinite Me ref1

labels ref1

Little Me ref1

Phantom Self ref1, ref2, ref3

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3

Provisional Progressives ref1

race, religion and sexual preferences ref1

sponge-minds and free minds ref1

transformation ref1

transgender persons ref1

victims ref1, ref2

white supremacists ref1

wisdom ref1

self, love for ref1

Semiramis/I shtar (virgin mother) ref1

Senor, Dan ref1

Sentient World Simulation ( SWS) ref1, ref2, ref3

September ref1 , 2 0 0 1 , attacks on United States ref2, ref3

Afghanistan, invasion of ref1, ref2

Al-Qaeda ref1

alternative media ref1

anti-terrorism drills ref1

building and structural experts ref1

challenging official story as being insensitive to victims ref1

CIA ref1, ref2

conspiracy theories ref1, ref2

controlled demolition ref1

drones ref1

drug trade ref1

emotional reactions ref1

false flags ref1

feedback loops ref1

Iraq, invasion of ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2

no-fly zones ref1

NORAD ref1

Operation Northwoods ref1

passport of terrorist, discovery of ref1

Pentagon, no-fly zone over ref1

pilots ref1

politicians ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1, ref2, ref3

Project for the New American Century (PNAC) ref1, ref2

psychopaths ref1

real reason for 9/11 ref1

regime changes ref1

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2, ref3

Temple of Solomon ref1

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

victims ref1, ref2

war ref1, ref2, ref3

World Trade Center Building ref1, collapse of ref2

Zionism ref1

Serbia

bombing of Belgrade ref1, ref2

EU membership ref1

serpent worship ref1

Sessions, Jeff ref1

settlement zones, creation of human ref1

Seveso chemical explosion ref1

sexual desire ref1

sexual offences ref1, ref2, ref3

sexuality

identity politics ref1

labels ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2

rise in number of LGBTIQ people ref1

self-identity ref1

Shackleton, Ernest ref1

Shaked, Aylet ref1

Shakespeare, David ref1

shamans ref1

al-Shammari, A bdul Wahhab I brahim. The Wahhabi Movement, the

Truth

and Roots ref1

Shamir, Yitzhak ref1, ref2

Shanboor, Tarek ref1

Shannon, Michael ref1, ref2

shapeshifting

Archontic Reptilians ref1, ref2

British Royal Family ref1, ref2

Draco Reptilians ref1

software El-ite ref1

Shapiro, Irwin ref1

Sharia law ref1, ref2

Sharif, Nawaz ref1

Sharon, Ariel ref1

Sharpe, Richard ref1

Shaykhun, Khan ref1, ref2

Shayler, David ref1

Shcherbakov, Alexander ref1

Shelfi eld, Françoise ref1

Shine, Betty ref1, ref2

Mind to Mind ref1

Shipp, Kevin ref1

Shoebridge, Charles ref1

Sibeck, David ref1

Silicon V alley

antiSemitism, monitoring of ref1

Archontic corporations ref1

assimilation ref1

forest/twigs ref1

Google ref1

surveillance ref1

synthetic humans ref1

transhumanism ref1, ref2

Silverman, Stephen ref1

Simard, Suzanne ref1

simulation see computer simulation, world as

Sinclair, Upton ref1

Singer, Robert ref1

singularity

Big Bang ref1

definition ref1

Singularity University, NASA Research Park ref1, ref2, ref3

Siri office assistant ref1, ref2

Sirius

Archontic Reptilians ref1

Dogon tribe in Mali ref1

Orion ref1, ref2

The Sirius Mystery. Temple, Robert ref1

el-Sisi, Abdel Fatteh ref1, ref2, ref3

Skenderis, Kostas ref1

skeptics ref1

Skull and Bones ref1

Sky News ref1

Slim H elu, Carlos ref1

Sloan Digital Sky Survey, New Mexico ref1

Smallstorm, Sofia ref1

Smart technology

addiction ref1, ref2

Amazon ref1

cancer ref1

cities ref1, ref2

empathy ref1

5G ref1

fridges ref1

Google ref1

Grid ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

infrastructure ref1

love as ultimate power ref1

meters ref1, ref2, ref3

phones addiction ref1

concentration, effects on ref1

radiation ref1

religion ref1

synthetic humans ref1

Smart Grid ref1

Smart Objects ref1

synthetic humans ref1

televisions ref1, ref2

Smoot, George ref1

Snopes.com ref1

Snow, Jon ref1

Snowden, Edward ref1, ref2

‘ snowfl akes’ ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

social media

abusive behaviour ref1

addiction ref1

algorithms ref1

censorship ref1, ref2

echo chamber, as ref1

fake news ref1

giants ref1

group-think ref1

hate speech ref1

information hijack ref1

Israel, payment for positive comments by ref1

paid trolls ref1

psychopaths ref1

Russia, use by ref1

software El-ite ref1

Web ref1

social workers ref1, ref2

Soffer, Arnon ref1

software El-ite ref1

Archontic distortion ref1, ref2

Archontic Reptilians/Greys ref1

banking ref1, ref2

bloodlines ref1

British royal family ref1

Celts ref1

Chinese emperors ref1

counterfeit spirit ref1

Demiurge ref1, ref2

empathy ref1

empires ref1

Frankism ref1, ref2, ref3

frequency bands ref1, ref2

Gnostics ref1

human-reptilian hybrids ref1

India, Nagas people of ref1

ISIS, origins from ref1

Media, bloodlines in ancient ref1

new psyche from Middle East ref1

paedophiles ref1

parasites ref1

psychopaths ref1

religion ref1

Reptilian mind ref1

ritual, obsession with ref1

royalty ref1

Sabbatean Zionism ref1, ref2

Satanism ref1

shapeshifting ref1

social media ref1

Soul ref1

Spirit ref1

Web ref1, ref2, ref3

Sol I nvictus ref1

Solomon, Sean C ref1

Song of the Stars. Mutwa, Credo ref1

Sons of the Covenant (B’nai B’rith) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Soros, George ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15

Soul

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3

Body ref1, ref2

Lower Aeons ref1

Mind ref1, ref2, ref3

reincarnation ref1

software El-ite ref1

Spirit ref1

sound ref1, ref2

South A frica ref1, ref2

Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) (US)

Apple ref1

censorship ref1

hate crime ref1

offshore accounts, money in ref1, ref2

Soviet Union see also Russia

Afghanistan, invasion of ref1

breakup ref1

hammer and sickle symbol ref1, ref2

Space X ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Space F ence ref1

Spain

censorship ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

spectre, origin of word ref1

Spectre, Philip ref1

spectrum ref1

Speer, Albert ref1

sperm counts ref1, ref2, ref3

spider and web see Web and Spider

SPI DER ( Segmented Planar I maging Detector for Electro-optical

Reconnaissance) ref1

Der Spiegel ref1

sponge-minds and free minds ref1

Springare, Peter ref1

Sputnik magazine ref1

St Louis Chapter of J ewish V oices for Peace ref1

Stalin, Josef ref1

standing stones ref1

Star of David (hexagram) ref1, ref2

Star Trek (television) ref1, ref2

Star Wars (film) ref1

Starbucks ref1

Starkman, Ruth ref1

stars

changing position ref1

information fields, as ref1

status q uo, creative destruction of ref1

Steele, David ref1

Stein, Joel ref1

Steinbeck, John ref1

Steiner, Rudolf ref1

Steinmetz family ref1

stem cells ref1, ref2

Stevens, Cat (Islam, Yusuf) ref1

Stewart, Jon ref1

Stoker, Bram ref1

Stoltenberg, Jens ref1

Straczynski, Michael ref1

Straw, Jack ref1

Streep, Meryl ref1

Strong, Maurice ref1

Sturgeon, Nicola ref1, ref2

Styger, Anton ref1

Sumer ref1

Summers, Lawrence ref1, ref2

Sun

Black Sun ref1

Primeval Sun ref1

Saturn ref1, ref2, ref3

sunspot activity ref1

twin sun system ref1

worship ref1

Sunday Times ref1, ref2, ref3

superhumans ref1, ref2

superstates, creation of ref1, ref2

surveillance

climate change ref1

Deep State ref1

drones ref1

military police ref1

‘Saturn’ Earth ref1

satellites ref1

Silicon Valley ref1

Smart cities ref1

SPIDER ref1

synthetic humans ref1

terrorism ref1

total surveillance ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

sustainable development ref1

swamp, draining the ref1

Swart, Adam ref1

sweatshops ref1

Sweden

border controls, removal of ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Muslim Brotherhood ref1

no-go areas ref1, ref2

organised crime ref1

police ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

progressives ref1

rapes and sexual assaults ref1

Swift, Jonathan ref1

SyF y channel ref1

symbols ref1, ref2, ref3 see also hexagrams/hexagons attention ref1,

ref2

black cubes as symbols of Saturn ref1, ref2

Christianity ref1, ref2, ref3

Cosmic Internet ref1

dove ref1

eggs ref1

Eucharist ref1

Father ref1

frequency bands ref1

hammer and sickle symbol ref1, ref2

high-technology craft in ancient texts ref1

Internet ref1

numbers ref1

occult ref1

Owl of Saturn ref1

religions ref1

Satanism ref1

subconscious ref1

Sun ref1

synaesthesia ref1

synchrotron, defi nition of ref1

synthetic humans ref1

Archons ref1

armed forces ref1

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2, ref3

cull of human population ref1

DARPA ref1, ref2, ref3

DNA ref1, ref2

D-Wave ref1

employment ref1

family unit, attacks on ref1

genetics and genetic disinformation ref1

genome project ref1

Gotham, use of word ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

Hollywood ref1

implantables ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East, replacement of ref1

ownership of human body ref1

procreation ref1

quantum computers ref1, ref2

radiation ref1

reptilians and Greys ref1

satellites ref1

‘Saturn’ Earth ref1

scalar field ref1

self-replicated cells ref1

Sentient World Simulation (SWS) ref1, ref2

Silicon Valley ref1

smart phones ref1

Space Fence ref1

stem cells ref1

synthetic, definition of ref1

transgender agenda ref1

transhumans ref1

wearables ref1

Year Million ref1

YouTube ref1

Zionism ref1

Syrian war

al-Qaeda ref1

Archontic Reptilians ref1

Balkanisation ref1

chemical weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

CIA training centres ref1

climate change ref1

emotions, manipulation of ref1

ICC ref1

invasion, justification for ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2, ref3

ISIS ref1

Libya, transfer of weapons from ref1

mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3

Manchester suicide bombing 2017 ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

NATO ref1, ref2, ref3

Neocons ref1, ref2

no-fly zones ref1

phosphorous weapons ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

progressives ref1

Qatar ref1

refugees ref1

Russia ref1, ref2, ref3

sarin gas attack by Assad, accusations of ref1

Saydnaya prison, mass executions at ref1

self-defence ref1

terrorist groups ref1

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

United States ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

White Helmets ref1

Szij j ártó , Pé ter ref1

Szombatfalvy, Laszlo ref1

T

Talbot, Michael. The Holographic Universe ref1

Talbott, David ref1, ref2, ref3

Discourses on an Alien Sky (YouTube) ref1

Remembering the End of the World (DVD) ref1

The Saturn Myth ref1

Thunderbolt of the Gods ref1

Tales from the Time Loop. Icke, David ref1

Taliban ref1, ref2

Tammuz/Ninus (virgin-born son) ref1

Taplin, Jonathan. Move Fast and Break Things: How Facebook,

Google and

Amazon Cornered Culture and Undermined Democracy ref1

Targeted Neuroplasticity Training ( TNT) ref1

tarot cards ref1, ref2

Tatchell, Peter ref1, ref2, ref3

taxation ref1, ref2, ref3

Taylor, Steve. The Fall: The Insanity of the Ego in Human History and

the

Dawning of a New Era ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

CHANI project ref1

consciousness, assimilation of other ref1

genetics, changing ref1

Greys ref1

interbreeding ref1

manipulation of waveform and electrical constructs ref1

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

transhumanism ref1

Tefi llin ref1

Tegmark, Max ref1

Our Mathematical Universe ref1, ref2

De Telegraaf ref1

telepathy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Teller, Edward ref1

Temple Mount ref1

Temple of Set ref1

Temple of Solomon ref1

Temple, Robert. The Sirius Mystery ref1

Terminal H igh A ltitude A rea Defense ( TH A A D) missile system

ref1, ref2

North Korea, threat from ref1, ref2

South Korea ref1, ref2

United States ref1, ref2

terminal illness, doctors’

timeframes for ref1

Terrile, Rich ref1, ref2, ref3

terrorism ref1 see also September ref2 , 2 0 0 1 , attacks on United States al-Qaeda ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

alternative media ref1

Antifa ref1

anti-terrorism drills ref1

Aurora, Colorado, shooting at ref1

Boston Marathon bombing ref1

censorship ref1

CIA ref1, ref2

crisis actors ref1

engineered terrorism/false flags ref1

fear ref1, ref2

financing ref1

France ref1, ref2

freedom deletion ref1, ref2

freedom of expression ref1

hate speech ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1, ref2

intelligence services ref1

Islam ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

ISIS ref1

known wolves ref1

London bombings 7/7 ref1, ref2

London Bridge attack ref1

Manchester suicide bombing 2017 ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8, ref9

Manchurian Candidate ref1

mass movements of people ref1

military intelligence ref1

military police ref1, ref2

mind control ref1, ref2, ref3

NATO ref1

Operation Gladio ref1

planning ref1

police-military control system ref1

Prevent ant-terrorism strategy ref1

privacy ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1, ref2

psychopaths ref1, ref2

Qatar, cutting off diplomatic ties with ref1

refugees ref1

Rwanda, Tutsis and Hutus in ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2

Soros, George ref1

Soviet Union ref1

surveillance ref1, ref2

Syria ref1

troops, deployment of ref1

United Arab Emirates (UAE) ref1

United Kingdom British soldiers ref1

police, arming the ref1

United States ref1, ref2

videos, destruction of CCTV ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Web ref1

World War II ref1

Tesla ( company) ref1, ref2

Tesla, Nikola ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

testosterone ref1, ref2

al-Thani , Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber ref1, ref2

Thatcher, Margaret ref1, ref2, ref3

therapy culture ref1

Thiel, Peter ref1, ref2, ref3

Thornhill, Wallace and Talbott, David The Electric Universe ref1

Thunderbolt of the Gods ref1

Thriller (video) ref1

Through the Wormhole (television) ref1

Thunderbolt of the Gods.

Talbott, David ref1

Tillerson, Rex ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

time ref1

ageing process ref1

Archons ref1

clock-time illusion ref1

Cosmic Internet ref1

decoding ref1

DVD analogy ref1

fickle finger ref1

illusion ref1

International Date Line ref1

Kronos (Old Father Time) ref1, ref2, ref3

NOW ref1, ref2, ref3

oscillation ref1

perceptions ref1

quantum mechanics ref1

Roman Church ref1

scalar connection ref1

slow motion ref1

speed of light ref1

sportspersons’ perceptions of time ref1

Time magazine ref1

The Times ref1

The Times of I ndia ref1

To Eliminate the Opiate. Antelman, Marvin ref1

Tompkins, William ref1, ref2, ref3 Selected by Extraterrestrials: My life in the top secret world of UFOs, think-tanks and Nordic secretaries

ref4

Time Warner ref1

Tong, Frank ref1

Toporek, Sergio ref1

torch beam and warehouse analogy ref1

Totalitarian Tiptoe

cash, deleting ref1

climate change ref1

cull of human population ref1, ref2

holdables, addiction to ref1

NATO ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1, ref2, ref3

Security Council (UN) ref1

Trading Places (film) ref1

traffickers ref1, ref2

transcendence ref1

Transcendence (film) ref1, ref2

Trance-F ormation of A merica. O’Brien, Cathy ref1, ref2, ref3

transgender agenda ref1

androgyny ref1

assimilaton ref1

Baphomet ref1

BBC ref1, ref2

Canada ref1

children ref1, ref2, ref3

clothing, no gender labels on children’s ref1

endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) ref1

epigenetics ref1

Frankfurt School ref1

gender confusion ref1

identity politics ref1

LGBT people, rise in ref1

male, attacks on the ref1

masculinity, end of ref1

narcissism ref1

non-binary ref1

oestrogen ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

propaganda ref1

RAF ref1

schools ref1, ref2

self-identity ref1

skirts, bans on ref1

smart phones ref1

sperm counts, fall in ref1

synthetic humans ref1

testosterone ref1

toilets ref1, ref2, ref3

United Kingdom ref1, ref2

United States ref1, ref2

transhumanism

Alphabet (Google) ref1

Apple ref1

artificial intelligence ref1, ref2, ref3

assimilation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

biological as technological ref1

Borg concept ref1

connected, technology as ref1

DARPA ref1

Facebook ref1, ref2

Google ref1

holdables, addiction to ref1

implantables ref1

nonhumanism ref1

organic stage of development, briefness of ref1

Orion-Saturn-Moon Matrix ref1

perception programming ref1

Silicon Valley ref1, ref2

singularity ref1

synthetic humans ref1

victims ref1

Year Million (television) ref1

trees and plants

brains ref1

buzz pollination ref1

communication ref1

consciousness ref1, ref2

Cosmic Internet ref1

frequencies ref1

sound waves for water detection ref1

vibration detectors ref1

wood wide web ref1, ref2

triggers

climate change ref1

mind control ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3

prediction of public responses ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

Trilateral Commission ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Trinity Mirror Group ref1

trolls ref1

Trotsky, Leon ref1

Trower, Barry ref1

Trudeau, Justin ref1, ref2

Trudeau, Pierre ref1

Trump, Donald ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17, ref18, ref19, ref20, ref21, ref22,

ref23, ref24, ref25, ref26, ref27, ref28, ref29, ref30, ref31, ref32, ref33,

ref34

Trump, Ivanka ref1

Trump, John G ref1

Truscott, Andrew ref1, ref2

Truth V ibrations. Icke, David ref1

Tsipras, Alexis ref1, ref2

Turan, D Mustafa. The Dönmeh Jews ref1

Turkey ref1

Turnbull, Malcolm ref1, ref2

Turner, Stansfield ref1

Turner, Ted ref1

Tutt, Richard ref1

Twain, Mark ref1

twigs see forest/twigs

Twitter

algorithms ref1

alternative media ref1

artificial intelligence companies, buying small ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

celebrities ref1

censorship ref1, ref2

fake news ref1

information hijack ref1

Israeli government ref1

progressives ref1, ref2, ref3

psychological operations ref1

racism ref1

storms ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

transgender people ref1

tyranny

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

Christianity ref1

climate change ref1

definition ref1

United Nations ref1

Tyson, Neil deGrasse ref1

U

Uber ref1, ref2

UF O sightings ref1

Ukraine

EU, association agreement with ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

Maidan Movement ref1

revolutions ref1, ref2

United States ref1

Ulfkotte, Udo ref1, ref2

Journalists for Hire: How the CIA Buys the News ref1

UN Economic and Social Commission for Western A sia ref1, ref2

underground bases ref1

DUMBS (Deep Underground Military Bases) ref1, ref2

Pine Gap underground base, Alice Springs ref1

Roswell incident, ref1

security clearance ref1

United States ref1

vampire legends ref1

Wright-Patterson airbase, Dayton, Ohio ref1

underground cities ref1

UNESCO ref1

Unfolding the F uture of the Long War. Rand Corporation ref1

United A rab Emirates ( UA E) ref1

United K ingdom see also Brexit; British royal family; Labour Party (

UK )

antiSemitism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

arms sales ref1

cancellation of events ref1

City of London ref1

colonialism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Commonwealth ref1

freedom of expression ref1, ref2

Grenfell Tower disaster, London ref1, ref2, ref3

grooming gangs ref1, ref2

hacking scandal ref1

hate speech ref1

indigenous Australians ref1

intelligence agencies ref1

Iraq, invasion of ref1, ref2

Leveson Inquiry ref1

Libya ref1

London bombings 7/7 ref1, ref2

London Bridge attack ref1

mainstream media ref1

Manchester suicide bomber 2017 ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8,

ref9

Met Office ref1, ref2

MI5 ref1, ref2

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

National Health Service (NHS) ref1

NATO ref1

Prevent anti-terrorism strategy ref1

private security firms ref1

public assets, sale of ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2

Security Council (UN) ref1

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3

sexual offences ref1, ref2, ref3

social media ref1

Syria ref1, ref2

terrorism ref1

London bombings 7/7 ref1, ref2

London Bridge attack ref1

transgender persons ref1, ref2

United Nations ( UN) see also Security Council ( UN)

Agenda 21 ref1, ref2

Agenda 2030 ref1, ref2, ref3

climate change ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Global Biodiversity Assessment ref1

Habitat III summit ref1

IPCC ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

peacekeeping operations ref1

Responsibility 2 Protection (R2P) ref1

tyranny ref1

war ref1

United States see also CI A ( Central I ntelligence A gency) ; H

ollywood;

I raq , invasion of; Neocons; September ref1 , 2 0 0 1 , attacks on

United States; Silicon V alley

1033 program ref1

Afghanistan ref1, ref2

Al Jazeera, attempts to close down ref1

all-seeing eye ref1, ref2, ref3

alternative media ref1

anti-Establishment scam ref1, ref2

Antifa ref1

anti-nuclear missile interception technology ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2

Arab Spring ref1

armed forces ref1

bailouts of banks ref1

Bohemian Grove ref1, ref2

Canada ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3

Charlottesville, Virginia, violence at protests in ref1

children indoctrination ref1

statistics on missing ref1

civil asset forfeiture ref1

civil war, provocation of ref1

climate change ref1

colonialism ref1

Cuba, justification for invasion for ref1

culture, definition of ref1

Deep State ref1

defence contractors ref1

Democons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

drone strikes ref1

fake news ref1, ref2

FBI ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Federal Reserve, heads of ref1

financial policy ref1

food and drink ref1

foreclosure machine ref1

GMOs ref1

Great Seal of US ref1

hate map ref1

Hispanics ref1

hurricanes ref1

Iran ref1, ref2

Iraq, marines in ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Korean War ref1

Libya ref1

Mafia ref1

media ref1, ref2

micro-apartments ref1

militarisation of government ref1

military police ref1

military spending ref1, ref2

money ref1, ref2

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

NASA ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12

National Security Agency (NSA) ref1, ref2

NATO ref1

Native Americans ref1, ref2, ref3

North Korea ref1

Oregon, privatisation of water in ref1

paedophiles ref1

Paris agreement, withdrawal from ref1

police in Israel, training of ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3

political funding ref1

presidential election 2016

Facebook ref1

Google ref1

outsider/insider scam ref1

Project Alamo ref1

Russia, manipulation by ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

unelectable candidates ref1

YouTube ref1

private corporations, governments set up as ref1

progressives ref1

Project for the New American Century (PNAC) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

ref5

psychopaths ref1

Qatar ref1

race war ref1

regime changes ref1

rigged, system as ref1

robots used to kill suspects ref1

Rockefellers ref1

Rothschilds ref1, ref2

rural areas, forcing people from ref1

Russia ref1, ref2

Sabbatean Frankists ref1, ref2

Satanism ref1, ref2

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2

Security Council (UN) ref1

Smart cities ref1

Special Forces Unconventional Warfare Strategy document ref1

statues, removal of ref1

swamp, draining the ref1, ref2

Syria ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

terrorism ref1, ref2, ref3

THAAD missile system ref1, ref2

transgender persons ref1, ref2

Ukraine ref1, ref2

underground bases ref1

unelectable candidates ref1

Vietnam War ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3

Washington DC street plan, pentagrams in ref1

Washington protest, funding of ref1

water, privatisation of ref1

weather, control of the ref1

White Helmets ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2

universities and colleges

Bias Response Teams in universities ref1

exams ref1

familiarity ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

perceptions ref1, ref2, ref3

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

student debt ref1, ref2

Upper A eons

bad copies ref1

death ref1

Gnosticism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Lower Aeon computer copies ref1

Uranus, acq uisition of rings by ref1

urbanisation ref1

V

vaccines ref1

Australia ref1

Big Pharma ref1

children ref1

conspiracy theories ref1

cull of human population ref1

deniers ref1

France ref1

GMOs ref1

Italy ref1

overseas aid ref1

United States ref1

Vaccine Injury Compensation Program ref1

Web ref1

WHO ref1

vampires ref1, ref2

V an der Bellen, Alexander ref1

V anderbilt family ref1

V anderWaal, David ref1

V aradkar, Leo ref1

V asin, Mikhail ref1

V ault 7 Wikileaks ref1, ref2

V avilov, Nikolai ref1

vehicles, control of ref1

V elikovsky, Immanuel ref1, ref2 Worlds in Collision ref3

V entner, Craig ref1

V enus ref1, ref2, ref3

V erdier, Philippe ref1

V ernetzte I ntelligenz. Fosar, Grazyna and Bludorf, Franz ref1

vibrations ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

victims

cancer, negative thoughts as causing ref1

feedback loops ref1, ref2

group-think ref1

hierarchy ref1

illness, negative thoughts as causing ref1

inherited victimhood ref1

no more victims ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3

race, religion and gender, abuse due to ref1

responsibility, taking ref1

self-identity ref1, ref2

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3

transhumanism ref1

young people ref1

video games

animals ref1

brain, effects on ref1

computer simulation, world as ref1

Cosmos full of planets ref1

encoding/decoding ref1, ref2

freedom, perceptions of ref1

love as ultimate power ref1

space ref1

wild, law of the ref1

V ietnam War ref1

V inciguerra, Vincenzo ref1

V irahanka ref1

virgin mother story, antecedents of ref1

virtual reality see also computer simulation, world as

Archons ref1

assimilation ref1

headsets ref1

illusions ref1

virtue signalling

cancer, negative thoughts as causing ref1

hate speech ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

protests ref1

racism ref1, ref2

visible light ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

visitations see A rchon visitations

V lad the I mpaler ref1, ref2

V oice of A merica ref1

V oltaire ref1

von Berg, Stefanie ref1

von Braun, Werner ref1, ref2

von Neumann, John ref1

V uč ić , Aleksandra ref1, ref2

W

al-Wahhab, Muhammad ibn ͑A bd ref1, ref2

The Wahhabi Movement, the Truth and Roots. al-Shammari, Abdul

Wahhab

Ibrahim. ref3

Wahhabism ref1

censorship ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

ISIS ref1, ref2, ref3

multiculturalism and immigration ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1 ref2, ref3

women, oppression of ref1

Wales, Jimmy ref1

Wall Street J ournal ref1, ref2, ref3

Wallace, James ref1

Wang, Haimin ref1

war ref1 see also I raq , invasion of

Afghanistan ref1, ref2, ref3

Al-Qaeda ref1, ref2, ref3

Arab Spring ref1, ref2

Archontic distortion ref1

Archontic reptilians ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Canada ref1

China, propaganda attacks on ref1

creative destruction of status quo ref1

defence contractors ref1

Demiurge ref1, ref2

Democons ref1

dots, connecting the ref1

El-ite ref1, ref2

Eurasia, control of ref1, ref2

European Union ref1

Fallujah, Iraq, US marines on ref1

financial/military aristocracy ref1

Greys ref1

Hunger Games Society ref1

ICC, prosecutions before ref1

Iran-Iraq war ref1

Iran, war with ref1, ref2

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

ISIS, creation of ref1, ref2

Lebanon ref1

Libya ref1, ref2

mainstream media ref1

Middle East, destabilising the ref1

money ref1

Neocons ref1

new psyche emerging from Middle East ref1

nihilism, definition of ref1

Old Testament ref1

patriotism ref1

people’s revolutions, manipulation of ref1

political analysts ref1

Project for the New American Century (PNAC) ref1, ref2, ref3

psychopaths ref1, ref2, ref3

regime change ref1

Responsibility ref1

Protection (R2P) (UN) ref1

Russia ref1, ref2, ref3

Sabbatean Frankism ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1, ref2, ref3

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2, ref3

The Spider ref1

superstates ref1

Syria ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

terrorism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

United Nations ref1

United States ref1, ref2, ref3

war crimes ref1

war on terror ref1

warships ref1

White Helmets ref1

World War Three ref1, ref2

World Wars ref1, ref2

Zionists ref1, ref2, ref3

Warburg, Max ref1

Washington Examiner ref1

Washington Post ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10

water

contraceptives in water supply ref1

Israel/Palestine ref1

Moon ref1

Oregon, privatisation in ref1

plastics in drinking water ref1

privatisation ref1

waveforms ref1

Watson, Tom ref1

waveforms

atoms ref1, ref2

Cosmic Internet ref1

decoding ref1, ref2

divide and rule ref1

DNA ref1, ref2

electromagnetism ref1

food and drink ref1

health ref1

holographs ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

homeopathy ref1

information ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Observer Effect ref1, ref2

quantum computer waveform Universe ref1

quantum possibilities and probabilities ref1

scalar connection ref1

standing wave oscillation ref1

technology-obsessed reptilians ref1

telepathy ref1

water ref1

waveform-digital-holographic connection ref1

Watts, Alan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

We are One ref1

wealth, concentrations of ref1

weapons

arms dealers and manufacturers ref1, ref2, ref3

chemical weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

mass destruction, of ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

military police ref1

nuclear weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

phosphorous weapons in Syria ref1

sarin gas ref1

Saudi Arabia, sale of arms to ref1, ref2

Syria chemical weapons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

phosphorous weapons ref1

THAAD missile system ref1, ref2

wearables ref1

weather, control of the ref1

chemtrails ref1, ref2

climate change ref1

frequencies ref1

HAARP ref1

Hurricane Harvey ref1

ionosphere heater technology ref1

jet stream ref1

Manhattan Project ref1

migration ref1

military weather manipulation ref1

MIT Radiation Laboratory ref1

pressure systems, manipulations of ref1

Project Popeye ref1

Rockefellers ref1

scalar fields ref1

United States ref1

Vietnam War ref1

WMO ref1

World War II ref1

Web and Spider

alternative media assimilation ref1

Brexit ref1, ref2

censorship ref1, ref2

information hijack ref1

media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

military police ref1

money ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1, ref2

Problem-Reaction-Solution (PRS) ref1

Russia ref1

Satanism ref1

software El-ite ref1, ref2, ref3

Syria ref1

terrorism ref1

vaccines ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3

The Weekly Standard ref1

Weishaupt, Adam ref1

Weizman, Eyal ref1

Welcome A merica ref1

Die Welt ref1

Weprin, David I ref1

Westworld (television) ref1, ref2

WhatsA pp ref1

What’s H appened to the University? Furedi, Frank ref1

Wheeler, John ref1

Wheeler, Tom ref1

whistleblowing

Archon visitations ref1

conspiracy theories ref1, ref2

ISIS ref1

media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

military police ref1

mind control ref1, ref2

White, EB ref1

White H elmets

Al Jazeera ref1

Blackwater ref1

fraud ref1

Google ref1

Grenfell Tower Tragedy, London, solidarity with ref1

humanitarian group, as being an ref1

Nobel Peace Prize ref1

Oscars ref1

Russia ref1

Syria ref1

United States ref1

war ref1

white people

Brexit ref1

group-think ref1, ref2

guilt ref1

love as ultimate power ref1

men ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

political correctness ref1, ref2

self-identity ref1

sperm counts ref1

supremacists ref1

targeting ref1, ref2

working class ref1, ref2

‘ who am I ’ ref1

‘ who benefi ts? ’ ref1

Who Built the Moon? Knight, Christopher and Butler, Alan ref1

Whole F oods chain, takeover by A mazon of ref1, ref2

wicker man ref1

Wi-F i

frequencies ref1

radiation ref1

quantum computers ref1

satellites ref1

Wigner, Eugene ref1

Wigington, Dane ref1

WikiLeaks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Wikipedia ref1, ref2

Wikitribune ref1

wild, law of the ref1

Wilde, Oscar ref1

Wilder, Arizona ref1, ref2, ref3

Williams, Brian ref1

Wilten, Danny ref1

Winkleman, Claudia ref1

wisdom ref1

Woj cicki, Anne ref1

Woj cicki, Susan ref1, ref2

Wolfowitz, Paul ref1, ref2, ref3

Woman’s H our ref1

women

abuse of young women ref1

Christianity ref1

faith, madness masquerading as ref1

feminists ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

flights, refusal by orthodox Jews to sit next to women on ref1

Islam ref1, ref2, ref3

Jews ref1, ref2

menstrual cycles ref1

mothers to seek employment, encouraging or forcing ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2

political correctness ref1, ref2

Saudi Arabia ref1

Wahhabism ref1

Washington protest, funding of ref1

Wonderpedia ref1

Wood, Elijah ref1

Woodcock, Leslie ref1

work see employment world army ref1

world government ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

World H ealth Organization ( WH O)

How to Respond to Vocal Vaccine Deniers in Public ref1

ownership of the world ref1

vaccines ref1

World Meteorological Organisation ( WMO) ref1, ref2

World Trade Organization ( WTO) ref1

World War Three ref1, ref2

WorldNetDaily (WND) ref1

Worlds in Collision. Velikovsky, Immanuel ref1

wormholes ref1

Worship of the Serpent. Deane, John Bathurst ref1

Wright-Patterson airbase, Dayton, Ohio ref1

Wyler, Greg ref1

Wynne, Kathleen ref1

X

X i J inping ref1

Y

Y a’alon, Moshe ref1

Y aldabaoth see Demiurge

Y anukovych, Viktor ref1, ref2

Y aq ui I ndians ref1

Y ear Million (television) ref1

artificial intelligence ref1

cloud ref1

hard drive, relocation of mind to ref1

hive mind, assimilation into ref1

Infinite Awareness ref1

left brain ref1

Metaverse technology ref1

minds, uploading ref1

surveillance ref1

transhumans ref1

Y ellen, Janet ref1

Y emen ref1, ref2

Y evtushenko, Yevgeny ref1

Y ishai, Eli ref1

Y net News ref1

Y ousef, Hediya ref1

Y ouTube

active users, number of ref1

advertising ref1, ref2

alternative media ref1, ref2

censorship ref1

extremist videos ref1

Google ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

presidential election 2016 ref1

synthetic humans ref1

Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Y ournewswire.com ref1, ref2, ref3

Y udkowsky, Eliezer ref1

Y uga cycles of eastern religions ref1

Y ugoslavia, breakup of ref1

Z

Z akaria, Fareed ref1

Z akheim, Doug ref1, ref2

Z DF Bonn ref1

Z e’ev (Vladimir) Jabotinsky ref1, ref2, ref3

Z elin, Aaron Yosef ref1

Z eta Reticuli ref1

Z evi, Sabbatai ref1

Z imbardo, Philip ref1

Z imdars, Melissa ref1

Z imecki, Michael ref1

Z ionism ref1

antiSemitism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

anti-Zionism ref1

Apple ref1

assimilation ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

climate change ref1

divide and rule ref1

European Union ref1

Facebook ref1, ref2, ref3

fake news ref1

food and drink ref1

Google ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

group-think ref1

hate ref1, ref2

Israel/Palestine ref1, ref2

Libya ref1

mainstream media ref1

mirror, life as a ref1

multiculturalism and immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Neocons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Project for the New American Century (PNAC) ref1

Revisionist Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Sabbatean Zionism ref1, ref2

September ref1, 2001, attacks on United States ref2

synthetic humans ref1

war ref1, ref2, ref3

Wikipedia ref1

World War Three ref1, ref2, ref3

YouTube ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

zoning laws ref1

Z uccaro, Carmelo ref1

Z ucker, Jeff ref1

Z uckerberg, Mark ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11

Z ulus

Chitauri ref1

legends ref1, ref2, ref3

Moon ref1

Mzungu ref1

People from the Stars ref1

Wowane and Mpanku ref1

Other work by David I cke

Phantom Self

The questions are being asked like never before. What is happening

in the

World? What is ‘life’ really about? Gathering numbers of people have

a sense of

unease about the direction of human society without knowing why.

Something is

happening, but what?

The Perception Deception

David’s most comprehensive book in which a vast spectrum of

subjects are

weaved together to present the world in a totally new light. 900 pages

copiously

illustrated and a colour art gallery by Neil Hague. The Perception

Deception is

the most detailed dot-connecting book ever written on these subjects.

Remember Who Y ou A re

This book breaks massive new ground and brings a world of

apparent

complexity, mystery and bewilderment into clarity. The key is in the

title. We are

enslaved because we identify ‘self’ with our body and our name when

these are

only vehicles and symbols for that we really are – Infinite Awareness.

H uman Race Get Off Y our K nees – The Lion Sleeps No More

A monumental work of more than 650 pages, 355,000 words, 325

images and

32 pages of original artwork by Neil Hague. David’s biggest and most

comprehensive book introducing the ‘Moon Matrix’ and providing the

fine detail

about reality, history and present day events. Highly-acclaimed and a

‘must

have’ for anyone interested in David Icke’s work.

The David I cke Guide to the Global Conspiracy ( and how to end it)

A masterpiece of dot-connecting that is both extraordinary and

unique. There is

a ‘wow’, indeed many of them, on every page as Icke lifts the veil on

the unseen

world.

I nfi nite Love is the Only Truth, Everything Else is I llusion

Why the ‘world’ is a virtual-reality game that only exists because we

believe it

does. Icke explains how we ‘live’ in a ‘holographic internet’ in that our

brains are

connected to a central ‘computer’ that feeds us the same collective

reality that

we decode from waveforms and electrical signals into the

holographic 3D ‘world’

that we all think we see.

A lice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster – Why the

Official Story of 9 /1 1 is a Monumental Lie

A shocking exposé of the Ministries of Mendacity that have told the

world the Big

Lie about what happened on September 11th, who did it, how and

why. This 500

page book reveals the real agenda behind the 9/11 attacks and how

they were

orchestrated from within the borders of the United States and not

from a cave in Afghanistan.

Tales from the Time Loop

In this 500-page, profusely-illustrated book, David Icke explores in

detail the

multi-levels of the global conspiracy. He exposes the five-sense level

and

demolishes the official story of the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan;

he

explains the interdimensional manipulation; and he shows that what

we think is

the ‘physical world’ is all an illusion that only exists in our mind.

Without this knowledge, the true nature of the conspiracy cannot be

understood.

The Biggest Secret

An exposé of how the same interbreeding bloodlines have controlled

the planet

for thousands of years. It includes the horrific background to the

British royal

family, the murder of Princess Diana, and the true origins of major

religions. A blockbuster.

Children of the Matrix

The companion book of The Biggest Secret that investigates the

reptilian and

other dimensional connections to the global conspiracy and reveals

the world of

illusion – the ‘Matrix’ – that holds the human race in daily slavery.

… A nd The Truth Shall Set Y ou F ree ( 2 1 st century edition)

Icke exposes in more than 500 pages the interconnecting web that

controls the

world today. This book focuses on the last 200 years and particularly

on what is

happening around us today. Another highly acclaimed book, which

has been

constantly updated. A classic in its field.

I A m Me, I A m F ree

Icke’s book of solutions. With humour and powerful insight, he shines

a light on

the mental and emotional prisons we build for ourselves … prisons

that

disconnect us from our true and infinite potential to control our own

destiny. A

getaway car for the human psyche.

Earlier books by David Icke include The Robots’ Rebellion (Gill &

Macmillan), Truth Vibrations (Gill & Macmillan), Heal the World (Gill

& Macmillan), Days of Decision (Jon Carpenter) and It Doesn’t Have

To Be Like This (Green Print). The

last two books are out of print and no longer available.

David I cke Live A t Wembley A rena

Filmed at London’s Wembley Arena in 2012 – this is the biggest event

of its kind

ever staged anywhere in the world. Nearly ten hours of cutting edge

information

researched, compiled and presented by David Icke that you will hear

nowhere

else in the world put together in this way.

The Lion Sleeps No More

David Icke marks his 20th year of uncovering astounding secrets and

suppressed information with this eight-hour presentation before 2,500

people at

London’s Brixton Academy in May 2010. David has moved the global

cutting edge so many times since his incredible ‘awakening’ in 1990

and here he does it

again – and then some.

Beyond the Cutting Edge – Exposing the Dreamworld We Believe to

be

Real

Since his extraordinary ‘awakening’ in 1990 and 1991, David Icke has

been on a

journey across the world, and within himself, to find the Big answers

to the Big

questions: Who are we? Where are we? What are we doing here?

Who really

controls this world and how and why? In this seven-hour presentation

to 2,500

people at the Brixton Academy in London, David addresses all these

questions

and connects the dots between them to reveal a picture of life on

earth that is

truly beyond the cutting edge.

F reedom or F ascism: the time to choose – 3 xDV D set

More than 2,000 people from all over Britain and across the world

gather at

London’s famous Brixton Academy to witness an extraordinary event.

David Icke

weaves together more than 16 years of painstaking research and

determined

investigation into the Global Conspiracy and the extraordinary ‘sting’

being

perpetrated on an amnesic human race. Icke is the Dot Connector

and he uses

hundreds of illustrations to reveal the hidden story behind apparently

unconnected world events.

Revelations of a Mother Goddess – DV D

Arizona Wilder was mind-programmed from birth by Josef Mengele,

the

notorious, ‘Angel of Death’ in the Nazi concentration camps. In this

interview

with David Icke, she describes human sacrifice rituals at Glamis

Castle and

Balmoral in England, in which the Queen, the Queen Mother and

other members

of the Royal Family sacrificed children in Satanic ceremonies.

The Reptilian A genda – DV D

In this memorable, almost six hours of interview, contained in parts

one and

two, Zulu shaman, Credo Mutwa, reveals his incredible wealth of

knowledge

about the black magicians of the Illuminati and how they use their

knowledge of

the occult to control the world. Sit back and savour this wonderful

man. You are

in the presence of a genius and a giant.

Available at the shop at Davidicke.com.

Document Outline

Copyright

Title Page

Dedication

Other books and DVDs by David Icke

Contents

Pity the nation ...

Title Definition

On The Road To ‘Now’

Chapter 1: The Biggest Need-To-Know

Chapter 2: The Inversion

Chapter 3: Log In/Log Out

Chapter 4: One Big Program

Chapter 5: Archon Visitations

Chapter 6: Software Elite

Chapter 7: Mind Control and Shapeshifting ‘Royals’

Chapter 8: Casting the Spell

Chapter 9: Holding the Spell

Chapter 10: Advancing the Spell

Chapter 11: Terrified of Truth

Chapter 12: Before Your Very Eyes

Chapter 13: War, War, War – We Love It

Chapter 14: Saying the Unsayable

Chapter 15: Is It Hot or Is It Me?

Chapter 16: The Assimilation

Chapter 17: Synthetic Human

Chapter 18: Perceptions of Freedom

Postscript

Bibliography

Index





Document Outline


Copyright

Title Page

Dedication

Other books and DVDs by David Icke

Contents

Pity the nation ...

Title Definition

On The Road To ‘Now’

Chapter 1: The Biggest Need-To-Know

Chapter 2: The Inversion

Chapter 3: Log In/Log Out

Chapter 4: One Big Program

Chapter 5: Archon Visitations

Chapter 6: Software Elite

Chapter 7: Mind Control and Shapeshifting ‘Royals’

Chapter 8: Casting the Spell

Chapter 9: Holding the Spell

Chapter 10: Advancing the Spell

Chapter 11: Terrified of Truth

Chapter 12: Before Your Very Eyes

Chapter 13: War, War, War – We Love It

Chapter 14: Saying the Unsayable

Chapter 15: Is It Hot or Is It Me?

Chapter 16: The Assimilation

Chapter 17: Synthetic Human

Chapter 18: Perceptions of Freedom

Postscript

Bibliography

Index





